patriotism, the love of country, and the love of home of a vast
majority to scotch in its inception any move in that direction.
But Abraham Lincoln, the patriot saint of real democracy, in
a speech made on the floor of this historic Chaimber January 12,
1848. said on this question:
Any people anywhere, being inclined and having the power, have the
right to rise up and shake off the existing Government and form a new
one that suits them better. This is a most valuable and sacred right,
a right which we hope and believe is to liberate the world. Nor is this
-right confined to cases in which the whole people of an existing govern-
ment may choose to exercise it.
In the same speech Lincoln denounced our war with Mexico
as an unjust war in the most sweeping and denunciatory lan-
guage. I quote from Lincoln:

I more than suspect already that he-Presdent Polk-is deeply con-
scious of being in the wrong ; that he feels the blood of Abel is crying to
heaven against hinm; that he ordered Gen. Taylor into the midst of a
peaceful Mexican sottlement purposely to bring'on a war ; that originally
having some strong motive-what I will not stop to give my opinion
concerning-to involve the two countries in a var, and trusting to
escape scrutiny by fixing the public gaze upon the exceeding brightness
of military glory-that attractive rainbow that rises In showers of
blood; that serpent's eye that charms to destroy-he plunged Into it,
and has swept on and on till, disappointed in his calculation of the
ease with which Mexico might be subdued, he now finds himself he
knows not where.
Lincoln charged President Polk with carrying the country into
an unjustifiable and unjust war. Of course, we must all con-
cede that were Lincoln on earth to-day with such an utterance
he would now be serving a sentence in the penitentiary along
with Eugene Debs. .
Let me not be misunderstood. I do not believe in Victor
Berger's principles. I believe, and have so acted throughout
this whole World War, that it is the patriotic and imperative
duty to sidpport the Government when the war is on. .I voted
for every measure to promote and carry on the war after the
declaration of wair. I have full faith in the patriotism, courage,
and fidelity of the American people, and I do not believe that
all the wild, soap-box orators from Maine to California can
destroy or even impair the vitality or sovereignty of this great
free Government. I believe with Jeffersoi and Lincoln that
error is not dangerous when truth is left free to combat it.
[Applause.]
Mr. DALLINGER. Mr. Speaker, inay I ask how much time
I have remaining?
The SPEAKER. Fifteen minutes have been used on each
side.
Mr. DALLINGER. I yield five minutes to the gentleman from
Wisconsin [M)r. KLECZXA]. [Applause.]
Mr. KLECZKA. Mr. Speaker, I can not accept the logic of
the gentlemn from Illinois [Mr. MANN] that by refusing to
seat Victor Berger the House will disfranchise those w-ho voted
for him. [Applause.]
The Constitution of the United States provides what the
qualifications of Members of this House must be. The di,%
qualification and ineligibility of Berger was known to every
voter of his district. It was proclaimed through the press, from
the public platform, from the billboards, through the mail, and
through every means of advertising and every agency of knowl-
edge communication. Everyone voting in that election knew
what the issue was. And yet, with a full knowledge of Berger's
disqualific'ation and a keen appreciation of the results of that
disqualification, they defiantly and contumaciously cast their
votes for Victor Berger. The Supreme Court of Wisconsin
declared that a vote cast for a candidate known to be disqualified
is null and void. When they cast their votes for Victor Berger,
whoi they knew to be ineligible, they were awvare of the fact
that their votes were null and void. They, therefore, disfran-
chised themselves by their voluntary and defiant action. [Ap-
plause.]
Are we going to listen to the voice of those who defied the
Constitution and. held in scorn and contempt the laws of the
land? Are we going to place a premium .on deflane of law
and order? Are we to give more weight to the rebellious and
defiant action of those who by their votes approved Berger's
seditious statements and treacherous conduct than we are to
the judgment and decrees of the supreme .court of a sovereign
State?
The precedent cited by the gentlenan from Texas [Mr. EAGLE]
disposes of the contention that the proposed action of the. House
is unprecedented. Even if there was no precedent for the action
contemplated by the pending resolution, surely the present is a
most opportune time and the facts in this case most compelling
to create a precedent. [Applause.]
This House, oil the 10th day of November last, pronounced
its solemn judgment of Berger's disqualification and ineligibility.
The Elections Committee, after a full, exhaustive, and delibera-
tive hearing, found Victor Berger guilty of giving aid and com-
fqrt to the enemy of the United States. Courageously and with
a due regard for the oath which eyery Member of this House
took to support the Constitution of the United States, this
House sustained the findings of that committee and excluded
Berger from membership. Is Berger less guilty to-day than lie
was on November 10?
Because this House patriotically and faithfully upheld the
organic law of the land and the honor of. this House. Victor
Berger brands the Members of this body as corrupt and servile
agents of the capitalists. The spectacle of November 10 last
is still clear in every Member's mind's eye. Accorded the privi-
lege of this floor, he heaped abuse upon organized government
and constituted authority; he burled defiance at law and order
and insulted the membership of this House. To what extremes

1920. -

1341



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0264.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD--IJOUSE.

JANUoARY 10,

must the Constitution be reviled and this House insulted before
we call a halt? Berger knew when he again became a candi-
(late that he.could not be seated in this*House. He only added
insult to the injury which lie has done to the country. By his
action he has thrown down the gauntlet to this House. In the
natie of the heroes living, in the name of that splendid band of
militant Americans who are members of the American Legi6n
and whom Berger with scornful hate calls "the cat's-paws of the
(capitalists," in the name of the martyred dead who sleep ih the
fields of Flanders and France we will accept that challenge.
[Applause.]
Nothing has transpired between the day that Berger was ex-
cluded and this day that would warrant any modification or
reversal of the judgment of this body. His conduct and his
utterances since that day have but furnished additional, evi-
dence that fortifies and strengthens the verdict of this 'House.
Since his expulsion le has declared on every public occasion
that te would repeat his treasonable statements and actions, only
lie would make them " much stronger."
Since his expulsion he has but grown more rebellious anId
more defiant of governmental authority. He publicly and re-
peatedly declared that "if the fifth- congressional district of
Wisconsin elected a horse thief or a polygamist as its repre-
sentative," it was of no concern to this House, and that this
body would be compelled to seat such an elected representative.
That is Victor Berger's conception of representative govern-
nient. But these declarations are in harmony with his per-
verted philosophy. He has never said one commendable thing
about this land of freedom and opportunity. le never saw any-
thing noble in American institutions and in American ideals.
lie prates about constitutional rights and in the same breath
condemns and reviles the Constitution as " a scrap of paper,"
Who ever heard of a man duly convicted after a full and fair
hearing, going about the country and condemning and reviling
the tribunal that passed the judgment of conviction, and then
appearing before that same tribunal which lie villified, and
obtained another hearing of his case? To grant another hearing
to this man would be to impugn the patriotism and question the
judgment of this House, so solemnly pronounced in this case on
November 10 last. To seat this inan would be to condone and
approve his treasonable conduct and seditious declarations; it
would mean that this House has compromised with disloyalty
and sedition. [Applause.]
13y unanmious consent, Mr. SHERWOOD, Mr. I.LKLECZKA. and Mr.
GRIFFIN had leave to extend their remarks in the REcO).
Mr. DAILINGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield live minutes to the
gentleman from Wisconsin [Mr. VoirT].
Mr. VOIGT. Mr. Speaker and gentlemen of the 1-ouse, I was
the only Member who voted to seat Mr. Berger when this matter
was up before, and my views are already in the REcorDn. I
desire to say now that I am more firmly convinced than ever
that Mr. Berger is entitled to his seat. It seems to me highly
unfair to jump on Mr. Berger, who is here helpless and alone.
He is called a traitor to his face and he is denied the oppor-
tunity to speak in his own defense. Judge Landis, who decided
judicially that lie was not prejudiced against Mr. Berger, is re-
ported by the Chicago Tribune to have said that he was sorry
the law did not permit him to order Victor Berger stood against
a wall and shot.
Mr. Berger, in my judgment, is a high-minded and honoralble
gentleman. [Laughter.] You may laugh and scoff, gentlemen,
but I know Victor Berger. No man can devote his whole life
and fortune to the great cause of endeavoring to better the con-
dition of the toiling millions, stand by his principles like a rock
of Gibraltar, regardless of personal consequences, without being
morally great. I do not agree with Mr. Berger politically, I do
not agree with his economic theories, but I hope that I am big
enough to recognize the purity of his character and motives.
Victor Berger's name will stand in the future as that of a
martyr to a great cause-the rights of free speech, free press,
nd representative government. History has always justified
,iuch men and history will justify Victor Berger. The people of
his district, who know him best, have already justified -him.
'Tlhey have spoken in no uncertain tones, and the old maxim is
that the'voice of the people is the supreme law. You may say
that Victor Berger is a traitor, but if you do, you have got to
.say that there are 25,000 traitors in the fifth district of Wis-
consin.
A ME-MBER There are.
Mir. VOI(T. There are not. The people of the fifth district
of Wisconsin are just as loyal tin( just as patriotic as the people
of my district in this country. [Applause.] They may have
different views fromn the lople in other districts as to what
const mitutes patriotismi in a given situa'tion, and they are entitled
to their views. You c(n look up the war activities of that dis-

trict and you will find less law-breaking than in probably 99 per
cent of the districts of the country. You will find that they
responded to every call of the Government.
Mr. GREENE of Vermont. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. VOIGT. Yes.
Mr. GREENE of Vernmont. According to that theory, if that
is the test to be applied, I call the gentleman's attention to the
fact that Judas Iscariot was treasurer of the Twelve Apostles
up to the time lie committed the one offense. [Laughter and
applause.]
Mr. VOIGT. That was a long time ago. [Laughter.] Mr.
Berger, as I understand it, is what is known as a mild so-
cialist. [Laughter.] You may laugh again and laugh some
more. Mr. Berger is called by the socialists of this country
a mild socialist, no matter what you may think about it. The
socialists of this country know more about socialism than the
Members of this I-louse. Mr. Berger was threatened with
ejection and abused at a convention of the Socialist Party in
Chicago last-September because lie would not stand for any
radical doctrines. The men who opposed him there, and who
withdrew to form a party of their own, knew what Victor
Berger stood for.
Mr. BLANTON. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. VOIGT. No; I can not yield. Mr. Berger lbs at no
time advocated a violation of law. It is charged here that he
stands for revolution. Why, gentlemen, wheni Mr. Berger
talks about revolution lie mealls a peaceable, economic revolu-
tion; he does not refer to force. You must give Mr. Berger
credit for having time and again in his paper, The Milwaukee
Leader, advocated compliance with the law. You evidently
do not give him credit for that, but it is a fact that ie has
said tine and again that any changes, economically or politi-
cally, which lie advocates nst be brought about peacea.bly,
through the ballot box.
The Constitution of this country guarantees Ai-. Berger the
right of free speech. If that means anything it means that
he should have the right to explain his position on the eco-
uoinic and political questions facing the people of this country.
It is said that ie is opposed to war. I grant him the right to
be opposed' to war, as much as I grant the right to a man to
favor war. If a man does not believe in war lie has the abso-
lute right to express his views. I am not afraid that this coun-
try is going to the dogs because Mr. Berger or any other mani
expresses his opinions. Not only is lie entitled to be heard,
but the people are entitled to hear him. If you are going to
bottle'up every man who has something to say which is out of
harmiony with regular doctrine, the intellectual worl must
come to a standstill. I have implicit faith in the good sense
of the American people. If they find anything good in Mr.
Berger's message they'have a right to accept it; if not they
will reject it.
Mr. QUIN. Will the gentleman yield?
i[r. VOIGT. No; I can not yield. Let me say in conclusion
you are not only doing an injustice il denying Mr. Berger a
seat in this House, but you are playing exceedingly bad poli-
tics. You are making a million or two socialist votes by, your
action. I prophesy that the next national election will show
the folly of your course in evicting Mr. Berger from this
House. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to extend my
remarks in the RECORD.
Air. BLANTON. I object.
Air. MANN of Illinois. The gentleman's objection is clarac-
teristic of most of the House at present.
Mr. SISSON. Mr. Speaker, a parliamentary inquiry. I do
not know how many people object to Air. Berger being ieard.
Mr. BLANTON. I do, and I am going to continue to object.
Mr. SISSON. I want to ask if it would be in order to m'ake a
motion to give Mr. Berger an opportunity to be heard, say, for
30 or 40 minutes?
The SPEAKIR. He can be allowed time only by unannimouS
consent, not being a Member of the House.
Mr. BLANTON. And I object, Mr. Speaker.
Mr. SISSON. Mr. Speaker, I desire to submit another par-
linientary inquiry. Does Air. Berger occupy the same position
and status as a man would wh.o is having a contest over his
election ?
Mr. DYER. Mir. Speaker, I demand the regular order.
Mr. BLANTON. Mr. Speaker, I demand the regular order.
Mi. SISSON. I want to.be heard upon the point of order.
ThO SPEAKER. The gentleman will state his point of order.
Mr. SISSON. Would he have the right-
The SPEAKER. The gentlelan has not stated any point or,
order.
Mr. SISSON. I make the point of order, Mr. Speaker, that
Mr. Berger is entitled to be heard. I do not helieve that this

1342



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0265.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

House will put itself in the attitude before the country of not
giving a mnii an opportunity to be heard, however anxious every
Melber of the House might be to come to a vote.
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman cite any precedent for a
person who is not a Member of the House being heard, except by
the unanimous consent of the House?
Mr. SISSON. I am insisting that by motion-
The SPEAKER. Will tile gentleman cite any precedent?
Mr. SISSON. I am not prepared to cite a precedent now.
Tie SPEAKER. The gentleman may take his time to look up
a precedent, and if lie can find one the Chair will be very glad
to hear hin. In the absence of a precedent, the Chair thinks
that a person not aI' Melber can only speak by unaninous
consent.
Mr. DALLINGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield five minutes to the
gentlelan from Wyoling [Mr. dMONDELL]. [Applause.]
Mr. MONDELL. Mr. Speaker, I shall take but a moment.
The only argunent that has been made on behalf of Mr. Berger's
clail to a seat in tle House is that an election having been
held in the iifth district of Wisconsin, and it having been
chiined that Mir. Berger received t majority of the votes cast
at tlat election, that fact is not only very persuasive but prac-
tieally compels favorable action on the l)art of the House in
the-matter of seating him. Unfortunately for the gentlemen
wo minake that arguimient and for the argument it runs counter
to the funnlalental law of the land, the Constitution of the
United States. It runs counter to the oath that we have taken
to lphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Tie Constitution limits those who are eligible to thei honor of
a seat il this House. It provides that they lmust be citizens,
that tiley nust be above a certain age, and that they must pos-
sess certain qualifications. Section 3 of the fourteenth amend-
Ilent to the Constitution provides:
Sic. 3. No person shall le a Senator or Representative in Congress,
or elector of President and Vice President, or hold any office, civil or
military, Under the. United States, or under any State, who, having
pireviously taken an oath as a Member of Congress or as an officer of
the United States or as a mnber of any State legislature or as an
executive or judicial officer of any State to support the Constitution of
the United States, shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellion against
the same or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof.
This House, through one of its committees, has heretofore
examined the record of Mr. Berger. That record was placed
-before the House. That record as placed before the House
aInd the argulents made in support of it satisfied every Member
of this House then present, save one, that Victor Berger had
been guilty of a violation of a law of the Union, that he had
given aid and comfort to the enelnies of tie country, and that
therefore he was not eligible to a seat in this House. It follows,
therefore, that notwithstanding what any people nay have since
done in his behalf, in an election or elsewhere, under the Con-
stitution of the United States, under our oath to support that
Constitution, in view of and consistent with the action we have
heretofore taken, we call not seat him as a Member of this body.
[Applause.]
Mr. DALLINGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield one minute to the
gentleman from Kansas [Mr. CAMPIELL].
Mr. CAMPBELL of Kalnsas. Mr. Speaker, I simply ask unarn-
inons consent to extend iy remarks in the ItEcoRin.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. I object.
Tule SPEAKER. Objection is heard.
Mr. DALLINGER. Mr. Speaker, in bringing this debate to
a close, I simply want to cite one other illustration of the utter
fallacy of the argunent of the gentlemlan from Illinois [Mr.
MANNJ in regard to the right of a constituency to choose any-
one they see fit and to have him seated by this House. Let us
suppose that Mr. Berger was still an Austrian subject. Accord-
ing to the logic of the gentlemnan from Illinois, we would have
to seat him, because the people of that district .chose to elect
lhiml. Tie Constitution, however, expressly provides that no
person shall be a Member of this I-louse who shall not have
attained to the age of 25 years, or who has not been a citizen
for seven years, or-
Mi. MANN of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, w-ill the gentleman yield?
Mr. DALLINGER. I can not yield.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. The gentleman ought not td falsify
my statements.
Mr. DALLINGER. Who wfas not a resident of the State at
the time of his election, and the Constitution also says, as the:
gentleilIn froli Wsyoming [Mr. M[ONI)ELL] has again pointed
lnt, that no person who has previously taken an oath as a
Member of Congress to support the Constitution of the United
States, which Mr. Berger did in 1911, and who subsequently
gave aid and comfort to its enelnies, shall be a Senator or
Representative in Congress. This prohibition is in the Con-'
stitution, to support which every Member of this House has

taken a solelnn oath. Mr. Speaker, there is no reason why any
Member should change his vote. Mr. Berger is just as much
unfit and ineligible to membership in this House to-day as he
was on November 10, and I trust that the Melmbers of this
House will be true to their oaths of office and vote for the
adoption of this resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I move the previous question.
The SPEAKER. The.question is on ordering the previous
question on the adoption of the resolution.
The previous question was ordered.
The SPEAKER. The question is on agreeing to the resolu-
tion.
Mri'. DALLINGER. And oil that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The question w',s taken; and there were--yeas 330, nays 6,
answered * present " 1, not voting 91, as follows:
YEAS-330.

Ackerman
Almon
Anderson
Andrews, Nebr.
Anthony
Ashbrook
Ayres
Babkia
Baer
Bankhead
Barour
Barkley
Ilee
Begg
Benham
Black
Bland, Ind.
Bland, Va.
Blanton
Boles
Bowers
Box
Brand
Briggs
Brinson
3rooks, Ill.
Browne
Brunibaugh
Buchanan
Burdick
Burroughs
Butler
Byrnes, S. C.
Byrns, Tenn.
Calnipbel], Kans.
Campbell, la.
Cannon
Cantrill
Caraway
Carss
Carter
Casey
Chindblomi
Christopherson
Clark, Fla.
Clark, Mo.
Classon
Cleary
Coady
Cole
Collier
Connally
Cooper
Copley
Costello
Crago
Cranmton
Crisp
Currie, Mich.
Curry, Calif.
])ale
Dallinger
Darrow
Davey
Davis, Minn.
Davis, Tenn.
Dempsey
Denilson
Dent
Dewalt
Dickinson, MO
Dickinson, Iowa
Dominick
Donovan
Doremus
Doughton
Dowell
Drane
Dunbar
Dunn
Dupr6
Dyer
Eagan
Griffin
Harreld

Eagle           Lanhaln          Reher
E~chols         Lankford        Reed. W. Va.
Enionds        Larsen          Ricketts
Elliott         Layton           Riddick
Eilsworth       Lazaro          Robsion, Ky.
Elston         Lea, Calif.     Rogers
Emerson         Lee, Ga.        ilomjue
)",sell         Leliibach        Rose
E'vallns, Nebr.  Lesher          Rowe
Eva ns, Nev.    Linthiumn       Rubey
Fairfield       Little           Rucker
Ferris          Lonergan         Sanders, N. Y.
Fields          Longworth        Sanford
Fisher          Luce             Scott
Flood           Lufkin           Sears
F,ocht         Luhiriig        Sells
Fordlney        MeAndrews        Shreve
Foster          MeArthur         Sinclair
Frear           MeClintie        Sinnolt
Freenmau        McCulloch       Small
French          McFadden         Smnith hiaho
Fuller, Ili.    MeGhcenon        Si Ill, Miii"
Gtlli-am      McKenzie         Siiii thwick
Card            McKiniiry        Snel I
Galand        McLaughlin, Mich.Steagall
Garner          MeLaughlln, Nebr. Stednmian
Glyinii         Ma cCrate        Steenerson
Godwin, N. C.  'Marregor        Stephens, Miss.
(;oodwin, Ark.  Madden           Stepihens, Ohio
Goodykoontz     Magee            Stevenson
Gould           Maher •          Stiness
Gralam, Pa.     Major            Stoll
Green, Iowa     Mann, S. C.      Strong, Kans.
Greene, Vt.     Mansfield        Strong, Pa.
Grlest          Mapes            Summers, Wash.
Hadley          Martin           Sunluers. Tex.
i rarilton      Mays             Sweet
Hardy 'Tex.     Mead             Swope
lastiigs      Merritt         'i'agne
Ilaugen         Michener        i'aylor, Colo.
Hawley          Miller           Taylor, Tenin.
lHlayden        Minaha n, N. .I.  'leiple
lays           Monaliai, Wis.  Thonlas
I lellin        Mondell          Tillan
Ifer;andez     Montague         Tilson
Ilersey         Mooney          limlerlake
Illikey         Moore, Ohio     Tiiher
licks          Moore, Va.       Tinhalkni
I foei         Morgan           Towner
I locy          Mudd Treadway
I folland       Murphy           Upshaw
Iloughton      Neely            Vaile
Howard          Nelson, Mo.      Vare
I fidlspeth     Nelson, Wis.      Veinable
lI ilings .     Newton, Minn.    Vestal
-hll, Iowa     NewtonMo.       Vinson
H ull, Tenn.   Nolan            Volstead
11lumphlreys    O'Connell        Walsh
I usted.       Ogden            Walters
I Hntchlinson   Oldfield        Wird
Igoe            Oliver           Wasoni
Jacoway         Olney            Walkins
Jllies         Osborne          Watson     -
lohnson, S. Dak. 'Overstreet    Weaver
,IeOnes, Pa.    Padgett          Webster
Jones, Tex.     Paige            Welling
:1 uil          Park            W halIey
Kahn            Parker           Wheeler
Kearns          Parrish          White, Kans.
Keller          Phelan"          White, Ale.
Kelley, Mich.   Porter           Williams
Kelly, Pa.      I'ou             Wilson, Ill.
Kennedy, Iowa   Purnell          Wilson, Pa.
Kettner        ' Quiu            Wiigo
Kiess           Radcliffe  -      Winslow
Kincheloe       Ilalney, Ala.    Wise
King            Rainey, II. T.   Wool], Ind.
Kinkald         Raker            Yates  .
Kitchin         Ramsey           Young, N. Dak.
Kleczka         Rlamseyer        Young, Tex.
Knutson         Randall, Calif.  Zihinan
Kraus           Randall, Wis.
Liampert        Reavis
NAYS--.
Manin, Ill.    Sisson           Voigt
Sherwood
ANSWERED "PRESENT "-1.
Sabab

1920.

1343



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0266.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

JANUARY 10,

Andrews, Md.
Aswell
Bacharach
Bell
Benson
Blackmon
Bland, Mo.
Booher
Britten
Brooks, Pa.
Browning
Burke
Caldwell
Candler
Carew
Crowther
Cullen
Dooling
Evans, Mont.
Fess
Fuller, Mass.
.Gallagher
Gandy

NOT VOTING-91.                     I.

Ganly
Garrett
Goldfogle
Good
Goodall
Graham, I1.
Greene, Mass.
lamill
Ha rdy, Colo.
Harrison
Hersman
Hill
Iluddleston
Ireland
Jefferis
Johnson, Ky.
Johnson, Miss.
Johnson, Wash.
Johnston, N. Y.
Kendall
Kennedy, R. I.
Kreider
Langley

MeDuffie
McKeowli
McKinley.
McLane
McPherson
Mason
Moon
Moores, Ind.
Morin
Moft
Nicholls S C
Nichols, 4Ihich
O'Connor
Pell
Peters
Platt
Rainey, J. W.
Rayburn
Reed, N. Y.
Rhodes
Riordan
Robinson, N. C.
lhodenberg

Rouse
Rowan
Sanders, Ind.
Sanders, La.
Saunders, Va.
Schall
Scully
Siegel
Sims
Slemp
Smith, Ill.
Smith, N. Y.
Snyder
Steele
Sullivan
Taylor, Ark.
Thompson
Welty
Wilson, La.
Woods, Va.
Woodyard
Wright

So the resolution was agreed to.
Mr. BLACKMON. Mr. Speaker, I desire to vote.
The SPEAKER. Was the gentleman present and listeninig
wvhen his name was called?
Mr. BLACKMON. Mr. Speaker, I just came out of a sick
bed and I was entering the Hall when my name was called--
The SPEAKER. The Chair must ask the gentleman if he
was present and listening when his name was called?
Mr. BLACKMON. I desire to vote "         aye," but I had just
walked in tile Hall when my name was called, and then the
next name-
The SPEAKER. Did the gentleman hear it called?
Mr. BLACKMON. I just came in the door and it was too
late to answer, but I was in the Hall.
The SPEAKER. Did the gentleman hear his nan-le called?
Mr. BLACKMON. Yes, sir; 'I just walked in the door, but I
did not have an opportunity to cast my vote.
The SPEAKER. The Chair hardly thinks the gentleman
qualities. The question is that the gentleman must answer
affirmatively if he was present and listening when his nale was
called.
Mr. BLACKMON. I was not in time to vote. I was present
and perhaps I do not qualify.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman was not in time to vote-
Mr. BLACKMON. My name was called as I came in the door,
and the next name-
The SPEAKER. The Chair fears the gentleman is not en-
titled to vote.
Mr. DYER. Mr. Speaker, tle gentleman suggests that he
came in the door from the lobby and heard his name called, but
he could not answer in time.
The SPEAKER. Why could not lie answer? The Chair
could not hear why lie could not answer.
Mr. GALLIVAN. He says the next name was called follow-
ing his. I do not think the Chair heard that. The next name
after his was called.
Mr. BLACKMON. I could not afford to shout my name when
was coming in the door.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. If he did not answer then, he can not
answer now.
Mi. BLACKMON. Mr. Speaker, it is a matter of little im-
portance. I did not care to pull off a Wild West stunt out
there at the door, and so I do not think I am qualified. It is
aIll right.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. The principal question is if a man is
here in the House and refused to answer when his name was
called twice, can lie then comie up and vote?
Mr. BLACKMON: I would have voted "yea " had I been in
the Hall.
The SPEAKER. The Chair does not think the gentleman
qualifies.
Mr. LEHLBACH. Mr. Speaker, my colleagues from New
Jersey, Mr. BACT ARACH and Mr. BROWNING, are unavoidably
absent. They request me to say that if they were present they
would vote " yea."
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
Mr. O'CONNELL. Mr. Speaker, I want to announce the un-
avoidable absence of my colleague, Mr. CALDWELL, and that if
he were present lie would vote " yea."
Mr. DEWALT. Mr. Speaker, I am requested by my colleague,
Mr. STEELE, who is unavoidably absent on account of illness in
his family, to say that if he were here he would vote "yea."
Mr. SMALL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanilmous consent that the
gentleman from Wisconsin, Mr. VOIGT, now have leave to revise
and extend his remarks in the RECORD.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from North Carolina asks
unanimous consent that the gentleman from Wisconsin, Mr.

VOICT, may have leave to revise and extend his remarks in the
RECORD. Is there objection?
Mr. BLANTON. Reserving the right to object-
Mr. MANN of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I ask for the regular
order.
Mr. BLANTON. The gentleman could print the speech of Mr.
Berger under it, and I object.
Mr. FLOOD. Mr. Speaker, my colleague, Mr. HARRISON, is
absent on account of illness. I am authorized to say that if he
were here lie would vote "yea" on the resolution which has
just been adopted.
Mr. DYER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that my
colleague, Mr. RHODES, who is ill and was unable to be here
yesterday or to-day, may be excused, and to state that if he were
here he would have voted for the resolution.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Missouri asks unani-
mous consent that the gentleman from Missouri, Mr. RHODES,
may be excused from attendance on yesterday and to-day on ac-
count of illness. Is there objection?  [After a pause.] The
Chair hears none.
Mr. SCOTT. Mr. Speaker, iu    colleague, Mr. NICHOLS Of
Michigan, is detained in Detroit on account of illness, and I am
authorized to say that if he were present he would have voted
in the affirmative on this resolution.
Mr. VOIGT. Mr. Speaker, I ask leave to extend my remarks
on the Berger matter, and to say that if leave is granted I shall
extend only my own remarks.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman asks unanimous consent to
extend his remarks in the RECORD. Is there objection?
Mr. BLANTON. I object.
On motion of Mr. DALLINGER, a motion to reconsider the vote
by which the resolution was agreed to was laid on the table.
TEAVE TO SIT DURING SESSIONS.
Mr. HAUGEN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
the Committee on Agriculture have leave to sit during the ses-
sions of the House.
,The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Iowa asks unanimous
consent that the Committee on Agriculture have leave to sit
during the sessions of the House. Is there objection? [After
a pause.] Ti;e Chair hears none.
POST OFFICE APPROPRIATIONS.
Mr. STEENERSON. Mr. Speaker, I move that the House re-
solve itself into the Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union for the further consideration of the Post Office
appropriation bill.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Minnesota moves that
the House resolve itself into Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the further consideration of the bill
H. I. 11578, the Post Office appropriation bill. The question is
oil agreeing to that motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Massachusetts [Air.
WALSH] will please take the chair.
Thereupon the committee resolved itself into Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union for the further con-
sideration of the bill H. R. 11578, the Post Office appropriation
bill, with Mr. WALSH in the chair.
The CHAIRMAN. The House is in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of
the bill H. It. 11578, which the Clerk will report by title.
The Clerk read as follows:
A bill (H. R. 11578) making appropriations for the service of the
Post Office Department for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1921, and for
other purposes.
The CHAIRMAN. When the committee adjourned last eve-
ning the gentleman from Minnesota [Mr. STEENERSON] had con-
sumed 53 minutes. The gentleman from Alabama [Mr. BLACK-
mON] has 90 minutes.
Mr. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, the gentleman from Alabama
has asked me to take charge of the time in his temporary ab-
sence, and I yield 10 minutes to the gentleman from Arkansas
[Mr. CARAWAY].
Mr. CARAWAY. Mr. Chairman and gentlemen of the com-
mittee,'I shall not detain you long. The postal employees have
made the handling of the mails the one activity of the Govern-
ment that all will concede has rivaled any achievement of pri-
vate business. Yet I think the postal employees are the worst
paid of any employees of the Government. I am speaking now
only of the conditions that exist in my own section of the
country, because I am not familiar with them in other sections.
Almost every day brings to the department the resignation of
a postmaster or a rural carrier or a city letter carrier from
my ,istrict; and to show you how little competition there is
for these places, I have-now upon my desk three or four cases
of long-established post offices where the department is unable

'1344



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0267.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-I-OU SE. ,

to procure -a postinaster at all. Recently it appeared that all
office paying between $800 and $1,000 would have to be abolished
because there was nobody who would accept the position. This
is the seventh year in which I have served as a Member of
Congress, anfd in all that time there has not been in my district
a single contest for the appointment of a rural carrier. There
has never been more than one man wanting the same job, and.
nearly every mail brings a resignation. The work is hard, the
roads are not overly good, and therefore at the present rate of
compensation it is almost imnoeible to keel) carriers at all..
Going back again .to fourth-class postmasters, it is almost imn-
possible in some communities to get anyone to serve. Under thq
present arrangement, when they must pay rent and for light
and fuel and are allowed practically nothing for clerk hire, it is
almost, if not quite, impossible to have some communities served
at all, and many men are now serving as postmasters who want
to quit if somebody can be found to take their places. This is
especially true of sone of the communities where fourth-class
post offices are compelled to act as-central accounting offices.
Men handling more funds and being responsible for more supplies
of money value than the cashier of an ordinary bank are inak-
ing net salaries sometimes of less than $40 a month. We cail
not maintain the service at its present high standard unless
some change is made.
In my particular section of the State we have a very few
star-route carriers, but in other sections of the State men have
gone into bankruptcy trying to fulfill contracts entered into
with the Government when conditions were wholly different. I
had a letter yesterday from a man who has a contract to carry
the mail. He has lived up to it so far, but in order to do that
at all lie has been compelled to mortgage the house in which lie
lives to raise a suhlicient fund to fulfill tile contract which he
entered into with the Government.
This class of postal employees-the fourth-class postmasters,
the central accounting offices, and rural carriers, and the star-
route carriers-ought to be taken care of more generously than
they are in this bill, or have been in the past. Ordinarily I an
not an advocate of raising everybody's salary. I have not been
at all filled with that enthusiasm over raising the salaries of
generals of the Army or admirals of the Navy that so agitated
sone Members on the floor of the House. I have not been in
sympathy with the propaganda that if you do not raise the pay
of these high Army officers imnmediately they will resign and
that the service would become demoralized. I think the man
who owes everything to his country for his education and then
threatens to quit unless you raise his pay immediately might
quit the service for the benefit of the service. [Laughter.]
But I do know that these postal employees who labor under
these disadvantages I have been telling you about are entitled
to ,some kind of an increase.
Take a rural carrier who goes out of my town, who has 29
and some odd niles of muddy reads to travel six days iu
the week and has to pay for the upkeep of his team and con-
veyance as all do. There is not a man living that would take
that contract if it were not for the fact that it is a Government
contract; but because he is willing to serve his Government lie
ought not to be penalized, lie ought to be paid a living wage. His
is not an isolated case; all or nearly all are similarly situated.
Wlien these sections of the bill are reached, dealing with this
class of employees, I hope that something may he done that
will make their services rendered to the Government not per-
formed at an actual loss. They are entitled to live and rear
their families in comfort.
If I am not mistaken, and I do not believe I am, there is not
a rural carrier serving in my State now under present condi-
tions whose salary is not more than half consumed by the cost of
the equipage with which he serves the Government. It-strikes
me that it is as unanswerable to require him to furnish a buggy
and a horse or two horses or a car in order to deliver the
mail on a rural route as it would be to require the postal clerk
to own the car that transports the mail on the railroad. The
rural carrier is serving the public, and he ought to have the
equipment with which lie serves the public furnished him. I
hope some provision will be made to take care of that situation
in the bill.
I have often heretofore called attention to the inadequate
pay of postal employees. I am pleased to note from year to
year some advances in pay have been granted. May we not
now cease to discharge this debt we owe them on the installment
plan. Let us pay it at once by giving to all these patriotic and
loyal postal employees a living wage. They deserve it; we
should (1o it.
The reason for not doing full justice to them in this measure
is that we wait on the joint committee's report. We know
what that committee ought to report. Why not anticipate it

and bring relief to these long-suffering employees now? For
one I am in favor of doing it. [Applause.]
Mr. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I yield five minutes to the gen-
tlemuan from Texas [Mr. BLANTON].
Mr. BLANTON. Mr. Chairman, we have now before the
Sixty-sixth Congress for consideration the second regular
supply measure to take care of the needs of our Government.
Our great majority party on the floor of the House having
charge of this great legislation has present exactly 13 Members.
Mr. PAIGE. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. BLANTON. Not now. If the gentleman wants to cor-
rect ile I will yield.
Mr. PAIGE. I want to call the gentleman's attention to the
fact that his party has 10 Members present and 2 boys.
[Laughter.]
Mr. BLANTON. Yes; and of the 10, 6 are Texans, and there
is also the gentleman from Tennessee, the gentleman from Ala-
bana, and the gentleman from   New York. But there aire
exactly 13 majority Members present of the great party which
has made so many promises to the people ab6nt taking care of
the interests of the people, now on time floor for the considera-
tion of the second great supply bill. The people are finding
out that you are not here, just like they will find out that
there are 13 of the majority here now.
M,r. BLACK. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. BLANTON. No; I can not yield now. Yes; I will yield
to my colleague.
Mr. BLACK. I want to ask the gentleman if it is not his
intention to go to his office as soon as lie gets through with his
speech. [Laughter.]
Mr. BLANTON. I will answer specifically that it is not.
Mr. BLACK. The gentleman said that he wanted -to occupy
his time now because he wanted to go to his office.
Mr. BLANTON. No; I said I wanted to fill two efngage-
ments with two constituents.
Mr. BLACK. Yes; but I understood that was to be in the
gentleman's office.
Mr. BLANTON. No ; because my constituents are waiting for
me out in the hall.
Mr. BLACK. Well, with that iodification, it is all right.
Mr. BLANTON. My colleague knows that I am here all the
time when business is being transacted, except when my con-
stituents call me out, and then I am out only a few minutes.
Mr. CRAMTON. Will the gentleman yield?.
Mr. BLANTON. I can not yield now. I want to state what
I intended to say-. The people of this country tire not going
to stand for this kind of representation by the Republican
Party, and if you Republican colleagues of mine expect to re-
main in charge of the business of this country you had better
stay here and take care of the business, because the people will
find out that you are not here.
Now, I want to say that thie same emergency conditions that
exist in the district of my colleague [Mr. PAmRRSI] exist in
mine. One of the greatest oil fields in the United States is in
my district and the district of my colleague [Mr. PARRISH].
What is known as the Big Ranger oil fields is iii my district.
There is one well there which has flowed as much as 12,600
barrels a day in my district. For over six months I have been
calling the attention of the House to the abnormal conditions
that exist there calling for iinediate remedial legislation.
I called the attention of my colleague [Mr. BLACK], who is a
member of the Post Office Committee, to that fact. He promised
me that when the bill was brought in lie 'was going to take care
