which the Government, as before shown, will pay 3 per cent.
The Senate bill accomplishes everything by a most comprehen-
sive scheme. It provides for the creation of an unlimited bonded
debt and the refunding of all existing debts, and makes all the
obligations of the United States payable in gold alone, and thus
robs all other money, of every name and description, of its legal-
tender power. It is also made the duty of the Secretary to sell
bonds enough to maintain the parity of all kinds of money by
redeeming everything in gold. If the people want a national debt

ever increasing, without limit, and desire that the Secretary of
the Treasury shall purchase gold enough to pay interest thereon
and enough more to redeem all other kinds of money and pay vast
subsidies to the national banks, their desire for hard times must
be insatiable. The people must decide whether the power con-
ferred upon the National Government to create money shall be
transferred to grasping syndicates to be used to -deprive them
of their property and eventually their liberty, or whether they
will have a sufficient volume of legal-tender money -issued by
the Government to maintain stability of prices, and have such
money covered into the Treasury and paid out for current ex-
penses to relieve overburdened taxpayers.
The passage of this bill, whatever may have been the intention
of its authors, will bring this question squarely before the Ameri-
can people. If this bill shall become a law, there will be no dodging
the issue. It must be met, and that issue will be between a gov-
ernment by a colossal and imperial concentration of capital, wield-
ing the sovereign power of the United States to create, contract,
and expand the volume of money, and an honest measure of value
consisting of the legal-tender money of the United States. Can
anybody doubt what that choice will be? I advise the banks, the
moneyed institutions of the land, and good citizens every where
to pause before they sanction this legislation which must create
financial despotism, revoltution, or anarchy. It will settle nothing,
but will provoke agitation to right -the wrongs it will inflict, and
if this bill shall become -, law, the good old proverb that there
is no peace for the wicked will be verified, and that beautiful sen-
timent expressed in the Swiss address to the Government of the
United States, that " unsettled questions have no pity for the repose
of mankind," will be realized.
Mr. CARTER. Mr. President-
Mr. ALLISON. I ask ihe Senator from Montana to yield to me
just a moment.
Mr. CARTER. Certainly.
Mr. ALLISON. At this stage of the debate, without intending
to discuss the pending bil., I ask that there may be inserted in the
RECORD the amount of coinage of gold and silver of the mints of
the world for the calenda:r years since 1873, including 1898.
Mr. TELLER. Not including 1899?
Mr. ALLISON. Eighten hundred and ninety-nine is not in-
cluded. I take the calendar year 1898. I quote from the last report
of the Director of the Mint, page 50:
The total value of gold coined during these years amounts to $4,6U,891,321.
Mr. COCKRELL. During what period?
Mr. ALLISON. During the period from 1873 to 1898, inclusive.
Mr. TELLER. By years?
Mr. ALLISON. The calendar years, giving each calendar year.
Mr. JONES of Arkansas. That is the production?
Mr. TELLER. The coinage.
Mr. ALLISON. It is the coinage of gold.
The coinage of silver during the same period amounts to $83,359,-
909,625. I ask that this table may be inserted in the RECORD. It
is very brief.
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from                Iowa asks
that a table to which he calls attention may be inserted in the
RECORD. Is there objection? The Chair hears none, and it is so
ordered.
The table is as follows:
Coinage of gold and silver of the mints of the world for the calendar years since
1878.
Gold.                   Silver.
Calendar year.Cong
Fine ounces.   Value.    Fine ounces.   value.
1873 ---------------------- .12,42,890  257,630,802  101,741,421  $131,544,466
1874 --------------------  6,588,279  135,778,387  79,610,875  102, 31,232
1875 ---------------------  9,480,892  195,987,428  92,747,118  119,915,467
1876 ......................  10,309,645  213,119,278  97,899,525  126,577,164
1877 ----_---------------- 9,753,196  201,616,466  88,449,796  114,359,332
1878 ------------------ - 9,113,202  188,is,611  124,671,870  116,191,913
1879 ---------------------  4,390.167  90, 752 ,811  81,12A, 55  101,888,313
1880 ......................  7,242,95t  149,725,081  65,442,074  816i1,,974
1881 --------------------  7,111,84  147,015,275  83,539,051  108, 010,080
1882 ....................  4,82, 851  99,697,170  85,685,996  110,785,t34
1883  :-.- -      •------ .-.. -  -----071,882  104, 845,114  84,541,904  109, 306,705
1884 ----- ----------  4,810, 061  99,432 ,795  74,120,127   95,832,084
18&5 ..............----    4,632,273  95, 757,582  98,044,475  126,768,574
1880....................4,578,310     94,642,070  91, 566, 844  12t ,4, 101
1887 .............  * --------- (- 46,510  12, 992,465  126,388,502  103,411,397
1888 ......................1 6, 5!2, M  l34,828, 855  10,351,000  131, 922.344
1889 ......................  t, 170,011  168.901,519  107, 788,256  139,362,595
1890 ---------------------  7, 219, 725  149,244,95  117,789, 228  152, 203,144
1891 ...................... 1,782,463  119,531,122  105,962,049  138,29, 367
1892 --------------------- 18,343,387  172, 473, 124  120, 282, 947  155,517,347
i89-3 .......-...............  ,243, 342  232,420,517  106, 697,783  137, 952, 699
1894---------------....-   -,05.680  227, 91,632  87, 47,523  113,095,788
1895 --------------------- 1:.,178,855  231,087, 38  98,12'8, 832  126, 87M, 642
1896 ......................  1, 470, (9  195,89;,517  123, ;9 t, 2TJ  159,50,027
1897 ...................... 2,174,,50  437, 722,99 -  1.29,775,082  167,790,(X)6
1898 -------..............  19,131,2   395,477,905  115,461,020  149,282,935
Total ....-.......... 29-i,664,115 4,664,891,321 2,598,680,092 3,359,909,65

776



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0781.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE.

Mr. ALDRICH. I do not know for what purpose the Senator
from Montana rises-whether he purposes to discuss the pending
bill or not.
Mr. CARTER. I rose for the purpose of calling up at this time
Senate bill 2179.
Mr. ALDRICH. There is a bill already before the Senate. I
wish to have some understanding in regard to that measure before
anything else is called up. I should like to ask whether any Sena-
tor is ready to go on with the discussion of the pending bill.
Mr. JONES of Arkansas. I understand that there is no one on
this side of the Senate Chamber ready to proceed with its discus-
sion at this time. Senators have been very much engaged with
other matters. While I know of a number of Senators who in-
tend to submit some remarks on the bill before the vote is taken,
a number of them have said to me that it has been impossible for
them to be ready at this time to proceed with the discussion, but
they hope to be ready very soon. 1 assure the Senator, as I did
the other day, that there is no disposition on this side to delay the
bill; but the personal convenience of Senators, it seems, requires
that some of them, at any rate, should have some more time in
which to prepare for the discussion.
- Mr. ALDRICH. I beg to remind Senators that this bill was re-
ported to the Senate three weeks ago, .that more than a week has
elapsed since the bill was taken up for actual consideration, and
that up to this time we have hadno speeches on the subject by
Senators sitting on the other side of the Chamber.
While I have said repeatedly that I did not expect to object to
discussion, and that we would be glad to have the fullest and
freest discussion, I think I have a right to ask that that discussion
shall take place within some reasonable time. With a desire,
which I believe is shared by almost every Senator sitting upon
either side of the Chamber, to reach a conclusion upon this sub-
ject at as early a day as possible, I feel it my duty to give notice
that I shall ask to have this bill taken up on Monday. If there are
no Senators ready to discuss it, I shall ask the Senate to voteupon
it; and if there is anyone ready to discuss it, I shall ask to have
the bill considered continuously until it shall be disposed of, and
that without any desire to be unreasonable in my request; but
this is a matter which it seems to me I must ask of the Senate.
Mr. TELLER. I should like to ask the Senator a question, if
he will' allow me.
Mr. ALDRICH. Certainly.
Mr. TELLER. The Senator complains that the bill has been
before the Senate for a week since he made his speech. I wish to
ask the Senator if there is to be any further discussion on the side
of those who support the bill except what we have had?
Mr. ALDRICH. I do not know at the present time of anyone
who desires to speak. So far as that is concerned, we are ready
to vote on the bill at the present moment.
Mr. TELLER. We who are opposed to the bill and who pro-
pose to discuss it-as the Senator from Arkansas says, without any
intention to delay it unnecessarily-had a right to suppose that
the bill, which presents so grave a question, one that has been so
much controverted, would at least have more than one defender
on this floor. If the bill is to be submitted without any debate on
the other side except what we have had, it will be the most ex-
traordinary thing that has ever happened in legislation in any
free country.
Of course I know that this is a caucus bill, but I did not sup-
pose that it was a caucus bill to the extent that the whole defense
of the bill was left to the chairman of the Committee on Finance.
However, if that is the case, we will get ready for this debate. I
should have been ready for it before, but I had every reason to
suppose that somebody besides the chairman-some member of
the committee, some one who sees so much beauty in this system-
would at least take up the question and do what the Senator did
not do, except in part-present to us the necessity for this legis-
lation.
Mr. ALDRICH. The Senator from Colorado is mistaken in his
view of the substitute. In the first place, this is not a caucus bill.
Mr. TELLER. I wish to say that the bill before the Senate
properly, the one to be considered, under the suggestion made by
the Senator who just left the floor, as all who know something of
practical legislation are aware, isthe bill that came from the House.
-That is first to be discussed, although the substitute of the Senate
committee takes its place. When we allowed the Senator to put
in the Senate bill for convenience, so that amendments might be
made to it, he did not understand, I hope, that he would cut us
off from debating the House bill.
Mr. ALDRICH. Not in the slightest.
. Mr. TELLER. That is the bill that some of us at least are
going to address ourselves to, not but that practically the bills are
the same, but there are some features which are different in the
bill as it came from the House, which I understand is a caucus
measure, although I do not think it is hardly just to say that it is
the result of a caucus of the Republican party, because it is not.
It was the result of a caucus of some outside, intermeddling people,

who thought they knew more about finance than anybody else in
the world, and who induced a small percentage of the Republican
members to adopt it as their work.
But we know very well, Mr. President, that when this bill passes,
if it passes with the Senate amendment and goes into conference,
we are practically cut off from any further debate and amendment,
and that we shall have to take the bill as it is.   So far as I am con-
cerned, I want to make some objection not only to the Senate bill,
but to the House bill, upon the theory suggested by the Senator
from Nevada a few moments ago, which is in absolute accordance
with the practice in the Senate that has been so viciously followed.
I will instance, if anybody wants an illustration, the Sherman
Act of. 1890, a bill that was forced upon the silver people of this
country, which, as I myself said, thirty minutes before I voted for
it, was absolutely indefensible as a money measure, and was only
put upon us to prevent the passage of a free coinage bill and the
necessity of a Republican President vetoing it, which he had de-
clared over and over again he would do if it came to him.
Mr. ALDRICH. Mr. President, I do not undertake to deny the
right of the Senator from Colorado or any other Senator to dis-
cuss in any of its phases either the House bill or Senate bill; but
I have suggested that if it is to be discussed that discussion ought
to be had. I assume there is no obligation on our part to do any-
thing more than to present the bill and to furnish with it the ex-
planations which those who are responsible for the measure think
are necessary for the information of the Senate.
I did not undertake to defend the bill, because the bill needs no
defense from my hands or anybody else. The merits speak for
themselves. I simply undertook to explain its provisions. Those
provisions up to this moment have not been criticised by anybody
upon the Democratic 'side of this Chamber and by no Senator ex-
cept the Senator from Nevada [Mr. STEWART], who sits upon this
side. The customary course of discussion, of course, is that some
Senator representing the minority on the committee shall under-
take to discuss the bill and give his reasons why it should not be
adopted. That, up to this moment, has not been done, and I am
simply trying to impress upon the Senate now that I feel it to be
my duty next week, when the bill shall come up again, to try to
secure either discussion or a vote.
Mr. COCKRELL. You will have some discussion.
Mr. TELLER. 'I wish to say one word further, Mr. President.
I have not felt myself under obligation to commence the debate
against the bill (although I am intending to debate it), because I
think there is great force in what the chairman of the committee
says, that the acknowledged minority of this body perhaps, who
we know are not in accord with the bill, ought to attack the
measure. I am in absolute sympathy with them in their attack
against it. In the orderly way in which we are doing business
here I suppose it is perhaps to be expected that they will com-
mence the opposition to it.
Mr. JONES of Arkansas. The Senator in charge of this bill
reminded the Senate that the bill had been reported to the Senate
three weeks ago, but he did not remind the Senate that on the
very day after his report was made the Senate took a recess for
two whole weeks. Many Senators were out of the city and were
not in a position to take up public business, and when they re-
turned a number of matters were before the Senate for consider-
ation. Bills have been taken up here for discussion, and the
morning hour has been taken up in the discussion of matters of
general and public interest.
Senators on this side did not consider themselves called on to
lay aside every other question in which they felt a public interest
for the purpose. of preparing for this debate. I do not think there
has been any such delay on this side of the Chamber as to call for
any criticism, and none of which the Senator from Rhode Island
can very materially complain. I have assured him that there is
no intention on this side to delay the consideration of the bill or
to delay a vote. It shall be had at an early date. There will be
no disposition to prevent that; there is none whatever, and has
been none; but gentlemen on this side who desire to submit argu-
ments against the bill to show its unwisdom or the reasons why
it ought not to pass need some time, in connection with other pub-
lic duties which they have, to present their views in as clear, dis-
tinct, and concise a way as possible.
I hope there will be, I am sure, in fact, there will be gentlemen
ready to take up the discussion on Monday next, and that there
will be a number of gentlemen ready in the near future to proceed
with the discussion. I hope there will be no disposition on the
part of the Senator in charge of the bill, as I am satisfied there
will not be, to prevent any fair discussion.
Mr. ALDRICH. I ask that the further consideration of the bill
be postponed until Monday at 2 o'clock.
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Rhode
Island asks that the pending bill be postponed as the unfinished
business until Monday at 2 o'clock. Is there objection? The Chair
hears none. It is so ordered.

1900..

777



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0782.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE.

JANUARY 11,

ADJOURNMENT TO MONDAY.
Mr, WOLCOTT. I move that when the Senate adjourn to-day
it be to meet on Monday next.
The motion was agreed to.
TWELFTH AND SUBSEQUENT CENSUSES.
Mr. CARTER. I ask for the present consideration of Senate
bill 2179.
Mr. HOAR. Mr. President, I shall try to get an opportunity
this afternoon for a vote on the resolution of inquiry, upon the
terms of which my colleague and myself have agreed. I hope it
may be adopted without objection. I give notice of that purpose
now.
Mr. CARTER. I believe the census bill can be very promptly
disposed of, I will state to the Senator. It is a matter of an urgent
nature.
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senator from Montana
asks that the Senate proceed to the consideration of the bill indi-
cated by him.
There being no objection, the Senate, as in Committee of the
Whole, resumed the consideration of the bill (S. 2179) relating to
the Twelfth and subsequent censuses, and giving to the Director
thereof additional power and authority in certain cases, and for
other purposes, the pending question being on the amendment of
Mr. CULLOM to insert at the end of section 2, on page 3, the fol-
lowing proviso:
Provided, That the Director of the Census may, in his discretion, collect
statistics relating to all the deaf, dumb, and blind, notwithstanding the re-
striction in this section relating to special classes.
Mr. CARTER. I have been authorized by the Senator from
Illinois (Mr. CULLOM] to withdraw that amendment in his ab-
sence.
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, the amend-
ment will be regarded as withdrawn.
Mr. BACON. I should like to ask the Senator from Montana
a question, not being familiar with the discussion which has been
had so far. Is there any provision in the bill under which the
census authorities would have an opportunity to take any statis-
tics with reference to deaf-mutes?
Mr. CARTER. There is in section 8 of the bill a provision
looking to that class of inquiries, and there exists an understand-
ing that certain restrictions in section 8 will be removed when
the thne arrives for the active operations under and in conformity
with the provision of that section.
Mr. BACON. The reason why I make the inquiry is because I
have had a communication on the subject from an institution for
deaf-mutes. I do not wish to offer any amendment if I have the
assurance that the bill as it stands is sufficiently elastic to permit
of such an enumeration and of such statistics as nay be desired
relative to that class of people.
ir. CARTER. I will state to the Senator from Georgia that
the Senator from Illinois [Mr. CULLOM] had an amendment pend-
ing, and discussed it at some length, and, in view of the arrange-
ment made for some future action with reference to that subject,
he authorized me to withdraw the amendment.
Mr. HOAR. Is there any harm in'inquiring of the Senator
what is that arrangement for future action?
Mr. CARTER. The desire of the Senator from Illinois was to
amend section 8, which, for the time being, is an inactive section
of the bill. It is provided that work under section 8 shall not be
commenced until after the completion of the decennial census.
The work can not be commenced under that section until an ap-
propriation is made for that purpose. The work can not be com-
menced until Congress directs that the Census Bureau shall take
up the subjects-matter embraced in section 8. Now, the objection
to the present language of that section by the Senator from Illi-
nois and those concerned in the subject to which he addressed
himself, and to which his amendment relates, was that it confines
inquiries as to special classes to those in institutions.
Mr. HOAR. I understand all that very thoroughly, but I want
to know what is the remedy proposed.
Mr. CARTER. Not desiring to encumber the present bill,
which relates to administrative work exclusively and is emergency
work in its character, I have suggested to the Senator from Illi.
nois, on the assurance of members of the Census Committee, that
when work is to be taken up under section 8 we will favor his
amendment to that section, removing all restrictions with refer-
ence to inquiries as to the deaf, dumb, and blind.
Mr. HOAR. I want to present a like consideration in regard to
mine. I think that possibly the direction in the existing law to
get the statistics of manufactures would authorize the statistics
of manufacturing power, but 1 suppose a lawyer-I give that as an
illustration of the whole point-would hold thatthe special enumer-
ation of one, of electric power, is an omission of the rest, and that
one power being mentioned in tlhe section it would be held that
that did not include water power.

I do not suppose there is anybody, certainly no business man, no
manufacturer, no lawyer, who would question the importance of
those statistics. Early in this very year I was counsel in an im-
portant controversy where th-re were some eighteen cases involv-
ing millions of dollars claims for damages, an entire stream hav-
ing been taken by a city for tie water power, and I was surprised
to find how imperfect were the statistics as to the water power of
the country and their large worth.
There is a paper on the statistics of water power in the last cen-
sus, as the Senator will recolr.ect. The gentleman who prepared
the paper himself admitted the imperfect material he had for it.
I have been very strongly urged to bring this matter to the atten-
tion of the Senate by the gentlemen who were engaged in compil-
ing those statistics the last time. There is some statistical mat-
ter, and a great deal in regard to my own State, because we have
had every alternate five years a State census. The material for
this compilation very largely exists in the great national Survey,
the Geological Survey, where, of course, the configuration of the
earth's surface is very exactlV measuredand recorded nowall over
the country. So it will not -e a very expensive affair to get the
material, and I hope the Senator will give me the same assurance
which I understand him to have given the Senator from Illinois.
I may say that the amendment which I offer has been approved
by the honorable Senator from Maine and by the honorable Sen-
ator himself as a good thing in itself. If they can give me the
same assurance that they have the Senator from Illinois about my
amendment, I will not detain the bill by debating it as an amend-
ment here.
Mr. CARTER. The Senator from Massachusetts correctly
states that the Senator fronm Maine, as well as the chairman of
the committee, approved of an inquiry directed to the ascertain-
ment of the information contemplated by his amendment; and in
so far as personal assurance goes, I can state to the Senator that
our votes on the committee of the Senate favor that amendment
to the bill at the proper time.
Mr. HOAR. I ask leave to have the amendment moved now
and printed for the information of the Senate, and then I will
withdraw it on that assurance.
The PRESIDENT pro tentpore. The Senator from Massachu-
setts presents an amendment. Does the Senator desire to have it
read?
Mr. HOAR. Let it go into the RECORD. I do not care about its
being read. I move it as an amendment to the bill. I want it
stated from the Chair that ii is moved as an amendment. Then
I will withdraw it.
The PRESIDENT pro tentpore. The Senator from Massachu-
setts offers an amendment t) the pending bill.
Mr. HOAR. It will be printed in the RECORD. It is not nec-
essary to read it.
The amendment presented by Mr. HOAR is to add the following:
That, in addition to the statistics enumerated in the eighth section of an
act to provide for the taking o the Twelfth and subsequent censuses, ap-
proved March 3,1899, the Director of the Census be, and he is hereby, directed
to collect statistics of the water power of the country.
Mr. HOAR. Now, I witthdraw the amendment on the under-
standing of the chairman o:' the committee that in his opinion the
committee will report favorably upon it as an independent mat-
ter when the proper time it. the future shall arise.
Mr. WOLCOTT. I do not understand that that kind of a bar-
gain is going around the Senate. I do not understand that the
chairm an pledges the committee to vote for anything. As I under-
stood the words of the Senator, he said that the committee gave
assurance that the committee would vote to adopt the amendment.
Mr. HOAR. The Senator did not understand me correctly.
Mr. WOLCOTT. I beg pardon.
Mr. HOAR. The Senator misunderstood my statement.
Mr. WOLCOTT. I understand the assurance was that in con-
sideration if the Senator would not press the amendment at this
time the Senator from Montana and the Senator from Maine on
the committee would vote for the adoption of the amendment of
the Senator from Massachtusetts.
Mr. HOAR. That is very different.
Mr. WOLCOTT. If the:xe is to be any further bargain, I should
like to know it.
Mr. HOAR. That is vex y different front what the Senator said
first.
Mr. WOLCOTT. It is very different from what I understood
the Senator from Massachusetts to say.
Mr. HOAR. I did not say anything of the kind. I said on the
assurance of the Senator from Montana that in his opinion it would
be favorably considered %vhen the time came, I would not press
the amendment now.
Mr. WOLCOTT. But I did not understand the Senator from
Montana to present so flowery a view of his committee as that.
I did not understand him to say that in his opinion his committee
would join with himself and the Senator from Maine in voting for
the amendment. He only went so far as to pledge his own vote

778



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0783.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE.

and the vote of the Senator from Maine, and if it went further than
that I should like to have the RECORD to show it.
Mr. HOAR. I will ask the Senator from Montana if it is not his
opinion that the committee will be likely-I understand he does
not pledge anybody-to consider the amendment favorably?
Mr. WOLCOTT. I should like to have it read, if I can have it.
Mr. CARTER. Mr. President, the statement was-I repeat it
as it was-that I understood the fact to be that the Senator from
Maine had precisely, as represented by the Senator from Massa-
chusetts, examined this proposed amendment, was favorable to
it, his only objection to the amendment being its incorporation into
this bill, such action being calculated to encumber the work of
the census. That is my own position. The amendment is a simple
one. There is no reasonable probability of any radical change of
opinion concerning it. I have no doubt that the amendment will
commend itself when presented at the proper time to the Senate
and that it will become a part of the law. I merely express that
opinion.
Mr. WOLCOTT. I have been trying to further the interests of
wise legislation. I desire to call the attention of the Senator from
Massachusetts to the fact that the Senator from Montana now
very carefully disavows any expression of opinion as to how any-
body will vote on this bill in committee except himself and the
Senator from Maine, whom he feels authorized to pledge.
Mr. HOAR. And he adds the opinion that he thinks the entire
Senate will favor it when it comes up. I trust my very lively
friend from Colorado will admit that that includes the proposition
I stated.
Mr. CARTER. Mr. President, the anxiety of the committee to
have this bill acted upon promptly is based upon the considera-
tions set forth very briefly in a letter just received from the Di-
rector of the Census. I appreciate the consideration of Senators
in withdrawing amendments calculated to lead to protracted dis-
cussion.
Mr. SPOONER. Will the Senator allow me a moment?
Mr. CARTER. I wish, for the information of the Senate, to
have this letter read from the Secretary's desk, whereupon I will
cheerfully yield to the Senator from Wisconsin.
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, the Secre-
tary will read the letter referred to by the Senator from Montana.
Ths Secretary read as follows:
CENSUS OFFICE, OFFICE OF TE DIRECTOR,
Vashington, D. C., January 11, 1900.
DEAR SENATOR CARTER: I beg to hand you herewith samples of fhe
schedules, now either in print or delivered at this office, that will be used in
the coming enumeration. You will observe that there are altogether over
10,000,000 of these schedules. To make any change in their form would
delay the work in such a way as to make it practically impossible to carry
out the present law. These schedules will be packed for shipment during
the coming month, and, in many cases, will be sent to the supervisors before
the 1st of March. I sincerely trust that there will be no additions to the
present law that will in any way interfere with the prompt delivery to the
supervisors of the country of the schedules In the form herein inicated.
The amendments that have been suggested through your committee are
purely administrative in character and necessary for the work and efficient
carrying out of the present act. I hope you will call the attention of the
Senate to this, in order that there may be no delay.
Truly, yours,
W. R. MERRIAM, Director.
H:on. TuIOssAS H. CARTER,
Senate Chamber, Washington, D. C.
Mr. CARTER. I now yield with pleasure to the Senator from
Wisconsin.
Mr. SPOONER. I want to make a suggestion in regard to this
bill to the Senator from Wisconsin, to which I think he will agree.
I suppose I am not alone in having a desire to amend the bill, but
I deferred proposing an amendment because of the urgency with
which the Senator from Montana pressed its passage without
amendment. I am taken, as I suppose other Senators are, some-
what by surprise by the proceedings here to-day.
If I had known what was to happen, I should have offered my
amendment yesterday and secured on the record here a stipula-
tion from the Senator to-day as the price of my withdrawal of it.
Now, I suggest to the Senator whether it would not be entirely
agreeable to him and altogether fair to let this go over until
Monday next, in order that those of us who desire to advantage
ourselves in the interest of the general public in this arrange-
ment should have an opportunity to prepare our amendments, to
offer them, and to secure on the record a stipulation in regard to
them similar to that which has been arranged with certain other
Senators.
Mr. WOLCOTT. I want to call the attention of the Senator
from Wisconsin to the fact that the pledge is only made on the part
of the Senator from Montana and the Senator from Maine.
Mr. SPOONER. I do not dispute that.
Mr. CARTER. I ask the Senator if he thinks the arrangement
is of sufficient importance to justify waiting over until Monday?
Mr. SPOONER. The arrangement being confined to the Sena-
tor from Montana, I am inclined to say I do not. [Laughter.]
Mr. PETTIGREW. I offer an amendment, which I send to the
desk.

The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The amendment of the Senator
from South Dakota will be stated.
The SECRETARY. It is proposed to add, as section 3, the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 3. That the Director of the Census is hereby required to collect sta-
tistics relating to the indebtedness of individuals and corporations, public or
private; also in relation to the distribution of wealth among the people of
the United States; also statistics as to the displacement of labor by machin-
ery, and the increase of the power of production by machinery in proportion
to the number of laborers employed during the last thirty years. And for
this purpose the Director of the Census may employ special agents, and such
special agents shall receive such compensation as other special agents.
Mr. PETTIGREW. Mr. President, this amendment is intended
to secure statistics with regard to the distribution of wealth. It
does not require the enumerators to gather the statistics on this
subject, and therefore will not delay the purpose of the law which
we have passed.
We make the Census Bureau, as I understand, a perpetual
bureau of statistics and information, and to fail to gather the in-
formation referred to in my amendment, it seems to me, would
be a very serious mistake. The question as to what becomes of
what the toilers of this land produce, whether it goes to them or
is taken from them by special privileges and accumulated in the
hands of a very few people is a very important one and reaches
ultimately the question of the preservation of free institutions.
The other subject in my-amendment is with regard to the dis-
placement of labor by machinery and the increased power of man's
production thereby. I desire this information for the reason that
I believe man's power to produce. as the result of the adoption of
machinery has increased many times more than the increase of
his wages, which should have occurred as a result of his increased
power of production; in other words, that the increased power of
production as the result of machinery has inured to the advan-
tage of capital many times more than to the advantage of labor;
that this has caused in a large degree the unequal distribution 'of
wealth in this country; that the increased power of production as
the result of machinery should go to the toiler in a much larger
degree than to the capital employed; that the power to produce
by machinery is a benefit to mankind if the increased power to
produce goes to the toiler, because his power to consume is also
increased, and thus the consumption and enjoyment of a greater
measure of the luxuries and comforts of life must go to those who
produce the wealth of the land.
I therefore believe these two questions are exceedingly impor-
tant; and I have asked that this information be collected by spe-
cial agents rather than by the enumerators, so that it will not
delay a single day or a single hour the securing of that.informa-
tion which seems to be the prime object of the bill.
I hope the additional section I have offered will be adopted
without objection.
Mr. CARTER. Mr. President, I hope the amendment will not
be adopted at this time. It will come under the supplemental
work provided to be performed after the conclusion of the present
census; and inasmuch as the subject-matter is of the character
specified by the Senator and should be performed by special agents,
it is not necessary that it should be entered upon at this time,
as it would seriously encumber this bill.
Mr. TELLER. I should like to ask the Senator from Montana
how it would injure this bill? It does not seem to me that it can
,interfere with the purpose of getting the statistics of population
or anything of that kind.
Mr. CARTER. It interferes with the bill in that it would begin
at this time to provide for additional work to be performed and
information to be obtained with the taking of the decennial census.
Any additional task imposed after the schedules have been printed
and prepared for shipment, as they areinvolves the printing and
preparation of other schedules, which must be perforce distributed
to special agents, supervisors, or enumerators, and it is now quite
obvious that after millions of these schedules have been printed-
Mr. PETTIGREW. My amendment does noV interfere with
that at all. It will not require anything to be done now.
Mr. CARTER. It will require additional printing in connection
with the census, which is now prepared'to be performed in an ex-
peditious manner; and we think that, inasmuch as this work can
be done through special agents, it ought to be confined to section
8 of the act, Which provides for the performance of certain work
after the completion of the census.
Mr. TELLER. I do not see how this amendment, if adopted,
will in the slightest degree interfere, because the proposed work
is not to be done by the enumerators, it is not to be done by the
people who are going to receive those schedules, but by an entirely
different force, as I understand the amendment; at least, it ought
to be done in that way. It ought not to interfere with the enu-
merators. It seems to me it would be wise to place the amendment
on the bill and let the Director of the Census know what he is to
expect, so that he may get ready to enlarge his work; and this
proposition, as I say, is separate and distinct.
ie will want an entirely different schedule for it from that

1900.

779



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0784.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE.

which he has prepared. I do not myself wish to put anything in
the bill which will retard getting out the population statistics and
some other statistics of that hind, although I think the informa-
tion desired by the Senator from South Dakota is much more im-
portant than even that of collecting the statistics of population.
The Treasury Department gives us every month an estimate of
population, and I have no doubt we know within probably a million
what population we have now.
But the information designed to be secured by the amendment
can only be collected by a class of high-grade people. Such work
can not be done by the common man who goes and enumerates
the people in his community. It can only be done by men of edu-
cation and good judgment; and when the information shall be
gathered it will be the most valuable we shall secure in the whole
line of statistics.
The subject involved in the amendment is one very much dis-
cussed and very much mooted throughout the world; and yet no
real data have been collected that I know of in any country which
would entirely satisfy the desire for such information. I believe
the adoption of this amendment would secure it. I should liketo
see the amendment adopted, and adopted early enough so that the
work can be done, and we can get the result of it not at the same
time with the population statistics, but afterwards.
Mr. CARTER. Mr. President, to that particular suggestion
there can be no reasonable objection, but each of' the persons in-
terested in various special subjects considers the special subject
attracting his attention as of the most vital and overwhelming
importance.
ir. TELLER. Let us keep the others off and keep this on.
Mr. CARTER. We have in section 8 of the law provided for
the collation of statistics, after the completion and return of the
enumeration, on the following subjects:
Statistics relating to special classes, including the insane, feeble-minded,
deaf, dumb, and blind; tocrime, pauperism, and benevolence, including pris-
oners, paupers, juvenile delinquents and inmates of benevolent and reform-
atory institutions; to deaths and births in reostration areas; to social
statistics of cities; to public indebtedness, valuation, taxation, and expendi-
tures; to religious bodies; to electric light and power, telephone and tele-
graph business; to transportation by water, express business, and street rail-
ways to mines, mining and minerals, and the production and value thereof,
inclAuding gold, in divisions of placer and vein, and silver mines, and the num-
ber of Dmn employed, the average daily wage, average working time, and
aggregate earnings in the various branches and aforesaid divisions of the
mining industry.
And a line of other productions. All of these were embraced in
the Eleventh Census, and the incorporation of these mighty de-
tails into that census made the cen sus such a ponderous work that
its results were not known foreight or nine long years after the
enumeration. It is that unfortunate situation we desire to avoid
at this time, and for the purpose of avoiding it the census work
has been divided by the original act into two distinct parts-first,
a decennial census confined within the narrow limits of popula-
tion, egriculture, manufactures, and vital statistics, and there we
stopped.
We provide for the continuation of this line of investigation,
though after the enumeration shall have been completed, and
thereupon for these other subjects in which the people are inter-
ested, in which legislators are interested, humanitarians, and peo-
ple in all the walks of human thought and endeavor, if you please.
each feeling that the thing which has engrossed his attention is of
more vital importance than all the other things put together.
Mr. BACON. Will the Senator permit me to ask him right
there at what time is it anticipated this special work will be be-
gun? In other words, what'I desire to know is this: The Sbnator
has suggested that by subsequent amendment to the bill what-
ever defects there may be regarding enumeration upon such par-
ticular subjects as Senators desire may be subsequently corrected
by amendment. The point of my inquiry is whether the subse-
quent enumeration on these special matters will probably be be-
gun before or after the next sesaion of Congress? The Senator
will see the purpose of the inquiry. If this inquiry can not be
begun before then, of course whatever amendments ought to be
made shbuld be made now.
Mr. CARTER. I will state to the Senator from Georgia that
no investigation can be commenced on this supplemental work
until Congress shall have appropriated the money for that pur-
pose. Not one farthing has been appropriated, and ho money will
be appropriated at this session for this additional work, in all
human probability.
I have suggested to Senators having in view inquiries upon sup-
plemental topics that when the appropriation is made to conduct
inquiries under this section will be the time to incorporate amend-
ments directing the particular subjects upon which investigation
shall be prosecuted.
Mr. TELLER. I should like to ask the Senator a question so as
to see if I understood him. Does the Senator mean to say that no
appropriation will be made at this session of Congress for this
specific work?

Mr. CARTER. I doubt wiether any will be made for this sup-
plemental work.
Mr. TELLER. Why not?
Mr. CARTER. I do not know as to that, but the probabilities
are that the regular census v ork will not be completed until Con-
gress convenes in December next.
Mr. PETTIGREW. But t;he amendment I have offered pro-
vides that the special work referred to shall be delayed until after
the completion of the returr's of the enumerators and the work
upon the schedules relative to agriculture, manufactures, and
mechanical establishments.
Mr. CARTER. As a practical proposition in that particular it
is known that the force whi,,h will carry out this supplemental
work will not be through wi;h the work of tabulating the sched-
ules of the decennial census until probably the 1st of next Janu-
ary, and there will then be ample time to make the appropriations
for this supplemental work.
Mr. ALLEN. I want to ask the Senator if it is proposed to
enumerate the industrial corabinations of the Unite States and
their effect upon the industrial classes? Perhaps I do not make
myself as fully understood a I should. What I mean is, whether
there is any intention to make a distinct enumeration of the trusts
and combinations, their capit ilization, their actual capital, their in-
fluence upon the industrial classes, and so on and so forth?
Mr. CARTER. I refer the Senator for an answer to the seventh
section of the act. The firsi; part of that section provides what
the Twelfth Census shall be.
Mr. ALLEN. Will the Sonator be kind enough to read-it? I
have not a copy of it before :ne.
Mr. CARTER. The seventh section provides:
That the Twelfth Census shall be restricted to inquiries relating to the pop-
ulation, to mortality, to the prod acts of agriculture and of manufacturing
and mechanical establishments.
Then there is a definition cf what the population schedules shall
apply to.
Mr. TELLER. That is the bill at present before the Senate, is
it not?
Mr. CARTER. I am reading from the present law. The bill
before the Senate is one wherein certain administrative features
of that law are corrected and provided for.
Mr. TELLER. The act provides, then, for a very limited ex-
amination?
Mr. BACON. I desire to make an inquiry of the Senator from
Mbntana. I understand the objection urged by the Senator from
Montana to the proposed amendment is that millions of copies of
the schedules for the taking of the census will be practically use-
less or will have to be changed in order to conform to such
requirements as amendments may place upon the census work.
The question I want to ask the Senator is this: Do the schedules
concerifing which the letter from the Director of the Census has
been read embrace anything more than the subjects-matter which
the Senator mentions as the subjects for quick enumeration?
Mr. CARTER. They do not.
Mr. BACON. That is the very point as to which I desire infor-
mation. If they do not, then of course these amendments can
not in any manner affect those schedules, because, as the-Senator
states, the enumeration with reference .to population, manufac-
tures, agriculture, and vital statistics are to be begun immedi-
ately, and the schedules hav3 been prepared for them. The other
work which will be attended to under these proposed amendments
is not to be done on those schedules at all, but upon altogether
different schedules. Therefore the argument, it seems to me, as
presented by the Senator is not forceful.
Mr. CARTER. The argument presented by the Senator from
Georgia is upon a mistaken notion of the facts.
Mr. BACON. I was asking the Senator as to the facts before I
proceeded.
Mr. CARTER. If the Senator had heard read the amendment
of the Senator from South Dakota [Mr. PETTIGREW], he would
have perceived that the amendment contemplates the addition to
the decennial census work of inquiries on particular subjects-
not waiting until after the 2ompletion of the enumeration. The
same was true with reference to the amendment of the Senator
from Illinois [Mr. CULLOM], relating to the deaf, dumb, and blind.
He contemplates an inquiry upon that subject contemporaneous
with the taking of the decennial census, which would involve the
printing of separate schedules, which would have to be forwarded
to the supervisors. To print those schedules would cause great
delay, and the enumerators would be encumbered with additional
work. The addition of any amendment is only unfortunate on
account of the work it would entail by inaugurating a policy of
legislation which would probably result ultimately in altogether
breaking down this census.
I agree with the Senator from Colorado [Mr. TELLER] that we
have restricted the census t) narrow limits in confining it to pop-'
ulation, manufactures, agriculture, and vital statistics; but aline

780

JANUARY -1.1,'



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0785.txt

1.900.       . , -

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE.

of demarcation had to be drawn somewhere in order to have this
work completed within any reasonable time, and the line was
drawn there, the rule of action being to confine the census to such
subjects only as could be intelligently investigated by a house-to-
house canvass. Any matter that could be investigated through
special agents or by correspondence was left out of the decennial
census work.
. Mr. TILLMAN. Mr. President, I think I can throw a little
light on the subject in which the Senator from Georgia is inter-
ested, in regard to the deaf, dumb, and blind. After the popula-
tion schedule, as outlined in section 7, shall have been completed-
in other words, after the enumerator has taken the population in
accordance with the requirements of section 7-section 8 provides:
That after the completion and return of the enumeration and of the work
upon the schedules relating to the products of agriculture and to manufac-
turing and mechanical establishments provided for in section 7 of this act,
the Director of the Census is hereby authorized to collect statistics relating
to special classes, including the insane, feeble-minded, deaf, dumb, and blind;
to crime, pauperism, and benevolence, including prisoners, paupers, juvenile
delinquents, and inmates of benevolent and reformatory institutions: to
deaths and births in registration areas; to social statistics of cities; to public
indebtedness, valuation, taxation, and expenditures, etc.
There is a very vast field to be covered by this special work to
be done after the first census, as it has been termed, has been com-
pleted. But there is a condition which limits the tabulation of
the deaf, dumb, and blind to those who are in institutions.
Mr. BACON. That is true.
Mr. TILLMAN. Therefore the deaf, dumb, and blind popula-
tion scattered throughout the country in private families, of what-
ever age or condition, are not to be enumerated in the census, and
there is no means of arriving at the number of persons of that
character.
M Air. BACON. It is to cure that defect that I desire to have the
amendment put in the original law. If the Senator from Montana
will pardon me a moment, there is already pending the amend-
ment offered by the senior Senator from Illinois (Mr. CULLOM].
- Mr. PLATT of Connecticut. That has been withdrawn.
Mr. BACON. It is stated that that amendment has been with-
drawn. I was about to read it for the purpose of calling attention
to the fact that it does not in any manner, so far as I am able to
judge of it, complicate or interfere with the taking of the quick
census. 'If it is practicable to do what the junior Senator from
Colorado [Mr. WOLCOTT] has criticised, to have an agreement to
the effect that this subject will be attended to on the appropriation
bill, it will be all right. I do not wish to embarrass the present
bill, but I do not see how the amendment would do so, for the
reason that it expressly provides this work shall'be done after the
enumeration in which the quick census is to be taken.
Mr. TILLMAN. I will say for the information of the Senator
from Georgia that if it is not taken with the first census it can
not be taken at all without an intolerable additional expense. It
is for the Senate to determine whether it will enlarge the scope of
the census. If we break down the barrier erected by the Census
Committee, we simply, as we were notified by the Senator from
Missouri [Mr. COCKRELL] the other day, open up a flood of amend-
ments concerning each special class of inquiry any Senator may
wish to have included.
Mr. PETTIGREW. My amendment provides for nothing of
the kind. It simply provides that this Census Bureau of statistics,
which is perpetual, may by special agents, not by enumerators,
investigate this all-important subject. I think the census would
be of very little value without it. It is not personal to myself,
nor a subject that I am particularly or personally interested in,
but it is a great public question. The question of the distribution
of the Wealth of this country is certainly a question of more im-
portance than almost anything else that can be investigated. As
the Senator from Colorado [Mr. TELLER] has said, we have almost
day by day a very accurate estimate of the population. We have
very many other statistics which are constantly being produced
by the statistical bureau, but the question of the distribution of
the wealth of this country has never been adequately and fairly
investigated. It ought to be.
. I do not propose to delay the taking of the census, and my
amendment does not delay it at all. It simply provides an addi-
tional section for the doing of this additional work. If the sched-
ules are 'all prepared and the work is disposed of, the enumerators
can commence their operations; and therefore the Department
will have the time to get out additional schedules for the special
agents to do the work which I desire to have done. This work
can not commence until an appropriation is made. It is quite
proper, then, that the amendment should be on this bill, because
section 8 is in the original law, which provides a large amount of
extra work to be done after the main census has been taken
through the enumerators; and if it was a proper time to provide
section 8 in the law when we passed it last year, it is time now for
my amendment to be placed on this bill. That is all I want. I
do not care to discuss it further.
Mr. PLATT of Connecticut. Mr. President, I should like to

contribute a few words to this discussion. If I understand the
matter, the present bill of the Committee on the Census relates
purely to the administration work under section 7, and is neces-
sary in order that that work may go on for the quick census, as
it is called. Having presented a bill upon that subject, it happens
that there ar3 a good many Senators here who feel that the scope
of section 8 ought to be enlarged. It seems to me that that is a
matter for thecommittee to consider and to bring in for the con-
sideration of the Senate hereafter.
It is perfectly apparent that if we are going to try to enlarge the
scope of the work under the eighth section by the adoption of one
amendment, this bill is not going to pass in that form after that
amendment shall have been adopted, but all Senators who feel
that the scope of the census should be enlarged are going to ask
to have action delayed upon it until they can bring forward the
particular measures which they think should be attended to in
the enlargement of section 8.
Now, we are not going to pass any bill for the perfection of the
administration of the census if this policy is pursued. It seems
to me that the way to do is for the person who wants the census
enlarged to present amendments to that bill and refer them to the
committee and have the committee consider them. It is evident
it has got to be enlarged in some respects. Then let the commit-
tee consider all the questions as to the enlargement of the scope
of that work and present them all together to the Senate. Then
if Senators are not satisfied, of course that bill will be a proper
one to amend by the introduction of other topics. But it does
seem to me we ought to pass this bill now and not complicate it
with these other questions.
Mr. PETTIGREW. Mr. President, I wish to say simply one
word, and that isthat section 2 of this bill does enlarge the scope
of the census as provided for in the original act.
Mr. BACON. I wish to call the attention of Senators, and par-
ticularly of Senators on the committee, to one consideration which,
it seems to me, takes this particular subject-matter, in which I
have some interest, out of the possibility of its being included in
the suggestion made by the Senator from Connecticut.
The suggestion which I wish to make is that the enumeration as
to the deaf, -dumb, and blind can not be made at any time except
when the enumeration of population is made, except at a very
great expense, which would require a canvass from house to house,
just in the same way that the canvass is made for the purpose of
ascertaining the number of people.
There are a great many matters which can be investigated and
statistics collected relative thereto which are not subject to this
particular requirement, and therefore it is either now or never.
it seems to me practical. If I am wrong, I should like to be cor-
rected by the committee.: If there is a way in which it can be
done subsequently, of course I have no desire to embarrass the
