was this: That Congress had a right to prohibit the transmis-
sion through the channels of interstate commerce of lottery
tickets; that is, a ticket put in the express office-because it

520

I



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0525.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

had already prohibited it going through the mail-from New
York, for instance, could not pass through the channels of in-
terstate commerce to New Orleans. Is there any parallel In
this case? A man buys a ticket, and it is given to the woman,
and the transaction is closed and completed in New York
wherever the ticket is passed, and he never gets beyond the
jurisdiction of the State. There is no commercial intercourse
between him and some one else at the other end of the line.
Mr. MICHAEL E. DRISCOLL. Suppose a woman buys a
ticket in New York to go across on the ferry to Jersey City and
uses the ticket herself. If she goes there for the purpose of
prostitution, does not she come within this clause? It does not
say that any other person is guilty of this offense.
Mr. BARTLETT of Georgia. It might be so. I had not
examined the bill in that view, but the purpose of the bill, and
the purpose of the other bill reported here from the Committee
on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, is not to punish the alien,
but to punish the citizen for dealing with the alien.
Now, let us see what the lottery case decided. There were
four judges on one side and five on another, and I am as much
bound to observe my oath, to obey and follow the Constitution
of the United States where my convictions are that a bill is
constitutional, as the judges of the Supreme Court are. I do
not propose in the discharge of my duty, even if I believed this
case stood in the way, to appease my conscience by saying that
five judges out of nine had decided the law to be constitutional.
They are responsible to their oaths, and to their obligations,
and to their conscience, and I am responsible to mine. So it
does not matter to me if perchance this decision-and I do not
believe it-does look like sustaining the bill. I do not believe
it constitutional, and a thousand decisions of the Supreme
Court of the United States would not change me if I reach the
decision that it was not constitutional.
In the Lottery cases (188 U. S.) Justice Harlan said, in.de-
livering the opinion of the court, that they decided nothing
more in that case than that lottery tickets were subjects of
interstate traffic, and that Congress may prohibit their carriage
from State to State. I shall quote his exact language later in
my remarks.
Nothing more is decided by the lottery cases, and it is within
the judicial history of that case that but for the fact that that
decision was confined to the question of the carriage of lottery
tickets, and that the principle was not extended, the decision
of the court would probably have been different.
But it is said that we prohibit the carrying of diseased cattle
and diseased persons within the vehicles of Interstate commerce.
I may answer the gentleman in the very language of the Chief
Justice in the lottery case on that subject:
i The power to prohibit the transportation of diseased animals and
infected goods over railroads or in steamboats is an entirely different
thing, because they would in themselves be injurious to the transac-
tion of interstate commerce, and are especially commercial in their
nature.
The exclusion of these persons or these cattle rests upon a
'different ground, for nobody would pretend that persons can be
kept off a train because they were coming from State to State
to engage in the lottery business. Yet if you have got the right
to punish a man for buying a ticket, you have got the right to
prohibit one from going from one State to another to engage
in any sort of immoral business.
The present Secretary of State while Attorney-General of this
Government, in the course of two lucid speeches which he made
upon the subject of interstate commerce, one at Pittsburg and
'one at Yale, defined the powers of Congress on the subject of
regulating commerce.
"Things that are noxious within themselves, that contami-
nate and block up, hinder, and interfere with the transmission of
interstate commerce may be prohibited; " although I do not
agree with him thoroughly upon that. "But things that are
not noxious within themselves can not be prohibited from being
carried in interstate commerce from one State to another." - It
is not a fact that an immoral person, in association with per-
sons going from one State to another to engage in immoral
purposes, interferes with commerce. It is what they do after
they reach their destinations, after interstate travel has been
completed, which makes the crime that is denounced and de-
fined in this bill. So when you come to deal with this particu-
• lar provision you undertake to punish for things Immoral under
the commerce clause when you have no jurisdiction over the
act. Chief Justice Marshall, in the celebrated case with which
we are all familiar, the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, in Ninth
,Wheaton, said that-
. Immorality, vice, pauperism, crime, are not things to be regulated
by the United States, but are things to be prohibited by the power
having jurisdiction to prohibit and punish them.

We might in our desire to promote the general welfare
enroll ourselves under the ba'nner of great moral reformers and
permit this bill to pass, without suggesting that it violates the
Constitution of the United States; but to my mind there has never
been within the history of the Government so long a forward
step to the centralization of all power within the hands and
control of Congress and the General Government as this.
Who upon this floor will dare support this bill because
his State, whose duty it Is to enact police laws to prevent im-
morality, to punish the violations of laws passed to prevent im-
morality and the contamination of the community by immoral
persons-who will stand upon this floor and vote for this bill
because his State is not competent and will not attend to Its
business which it reserves to itself the constitutional right and
exclusive power to. do under the tenth amendment? I resent
the idea suggested by many that my State-that any State-
which has never surrendered the right to exercise police power
over aliens and everyone else within its borders; that my State,
which has the power and authority reserved to It, never sur-
rendered, will not protect its people from immorality anid vice
and the contamination of immoral persons. We may exclude
paupers, idiots, convicts, and foreigners for the protection of
our people from immorality or vice whenever it may be for the
public welfare of the local community. However laudable the
purposes of this bill may be, and I do not gainsay it, I can not
shut my eyes from the fact that It is an effort to assume power
to punish immorality and vice within the State under the
commerce clause of the Constitution and to exercise power
that it does not have and which has never been surrendered or
delegated to it by the States.
Now, let us refer to some of the authorities:
Inspection laws-
Said Justice Marshall-
maritime laws, health laws of every description, laws affecting morals,
good order, and general welfare, and laws regulating the internal com-
merce of the State, etc., form a part of that Immense mass of legisla-
tion which embraces everything within the territory of the State not
surrendered to the General Government. No direct, general power over
these subjects is left to Congress, and consequently they remain subject
to state legislation.
In New York v. Mil (11 Pet., 133) It was said:
All these powers which relate merely to a municipal legislation, or
what perhaps may more properly be called internal police, are not thus
surrendered or restrained, and consequently in relation to these the au-
thority of a State is complete, unqualified, and exclusive.
In the Passenger cases (7 How.) it was said:
In giving the commercial power to Congress, the States did not part
with that power of self-preservation which, must be.inherent in every
organized community. They may guard against the introduction of any-
thing which may corrupt the morals or endanger the lives or health of
their citizens.
*It was further said:
So may the States, by like regulation, exclude from their midst not
only convicts, paupers, idots, lunatics, and persons likely to become a
public charge, but animals having contagious diseases. This court has
never hesitated, by the most rigid rules of construction, to guard the
commercial power of Congress against encroachments, in the form or
under the guise of state regulations, established for the purpose and
with the effect of impairing rights secured by the Constitution. It has,
nevertheless, with marked directness and uniformity recognized the
necessity, growing out of the fundamental conditions of civil society,
of upholding state police regulations which were enacted in good faith
and had appropriate and direct connection with that protection to life,
health, and property which each State owes to her citizens.
In another case it was said:
A State has the same undeniable and unlimited jurisdiction over all
persons and things within its territorial limits as any foreign nation,
when that jurisdiction is not surrendered or restrained by the Consti-
tution of the United States. It is not only the right but the bounden
and solemn duty of a State to advance the safety, happiness, and
prosperity of its people, and to provide for its general welfare by. any
and every act of legislation which it may deem conducive to these ends,
when the powers over the particular subjects are not surrendered or
restrained by the Constitution of the United States.
Now, I have not the time, nor do I desire to weary -the pa-
tience of the House upon this subject, but it is time to cll a
halt to this advance toward this centralization of power and
the destruction of all the rights of the States.
It will not do to say that you favor It because it is a moral
question or because it will accomplish good. There are many
things that are great moral questions that Congress can not
enact laws to advance nor to create crimes and fix punishments.
Every question affecting the morals of the people can not come
to this body, and it Is because the States and the subdiviv.ions
of the States can better take care of these questions that' the
power was reserved to them to do so, and to the States ex-
clusively,

1910.

521



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0526.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-OUSE.

JANUARY 11,'

The former distinguished Attorney-General, who is now Secre-
tary of State, said this is a speech which I commend to this
House:
The Constitution Is not to perish at the hands of Impassioned phrase
makers, and its defenders should not be deterred by mistaken or preju-
diced clamor from performing their obligations to preserve and defend
it. The Constitution was founded upon the sacrifice of the lives and
fortunes of its ancestors. It is the solemnly expressed will of the
people. It has been preserved by the people through all the years, and
t must endure as written and expounded until altered by the people
by the means which they have prescribed.
If by the pretense of regulating morals or preventing people
from going from one State to another for the purpose of pre-
venting immoral practices the commerce clause can be used
in a case like this, then it is an elastic shield beneath whose
protection you can hide in order to protect. yourself from the
charge of violating the Constitution of the United States, and
we will have here one great central government, and the con-
federated government composed of an indissoluble union. of in-
destructible States which survived the greatest internecine
war that ever bloodied the, pages of history will be no more.
It will not do to say that measures are desirable. and popular
and: therefore Congress should enact them. There are many
movements which have our symphthy. There are bills for the
correction of evils, which in the proper forum should and will
be supported by us; yet our judgment might compel us to re-
buke the means proposed for their accomplishment, especially
since we must be convinced that such measures be futile and
must fail when tested in the courts.,
Mr. Speaker, however commendable and laudable the pur-
poses of the bill may be and are, and however offensive to the
moral sense the .practices sought to be corrected are yet, in.
considering this proposed legislation, we can not close our eyes
to the question whether the power to punish therefor is dele-
gated to Congress or is reserved to the States. While the argu-
ment offered in the report of the majority undertaking to sus-
tain the power of Congress to enact the proposed legislation
is plausible, nevertheless it is a fact that It is an effort to use
the power given to Congress under the commerce clause of the
Constitution to exercise a power which it does not have-that
is, the police power.
I insist, therefore, that jurisdiction over matters of this kind
and the offenses created by this bill comes within, the accepted
definition, of the police power, and, speaking generally, that
power is reserved to the States for, as the: Supreme Court of
the United States has repeatedly decided, there is in the Con-
stitution no grant thereof to Congress. To. use the. language of
Justice. Brewer in the last adjudicated. case. of Keller v. The
United States (213 U. S., 138) :
That there: Is a moral consideration in. the special facts of this
case that he can charge is within the scope of the police power is im-
material, for, as stated, there is in the Constitution no grant to Con-
gress of the police power.
If Congress can assume this power, viz, the police power, to
control in the manner sought in this bill the acts of citizens
with- one another,, or acts of citizens with resident aliens, then
the door' is open to the assumption by the Federal Government
of an almost unlimited body, of legislation.
In the discussion, of the question we pretermit  any reference
to the question of the right of Congress to regulate or prohibit
the admission of alien immigrants. into, this. country, to prescribe
such rules and regulations, as; it sees fit for.. their admission,. to
fix the grounds and reasons for their exclusion, and the cause
and manner of their deportation. If this bill went no further
than to undertake to regulate the importation of alien women
for immoral purposes, and provide for the deportation of im-
moral and undesirable aliens,. it would meet with our, support.
The principal authority relied upon. to justify the passage of
this bill under the "commerce clause "' of' the, Constitution. is
the Lottery cases (188 U. S.),. which case decided, that Con-
gress had the power to prohibit the transmission through the
channels of. interstate! commerce of lottery tickets. In that
case it was decided by the Supreme: Court of the: United States
that power was granted .to Congress. by the Constitution to so
prohibit interstate traffic in lottery tickets; the decision was
agreed to by five. judges and dissented from by four. Upon a
careful reading of this case it will, be seen that the decision
was confined to the question of prohibiting, the interstate traffic.
in lottery tickets and nothing more. This will, appear from the.
following extract from the opinion of the court pronounced by
Justice Harlan:
We decide nothing. more In the, present case. than, that lottery tickets
are subjects of traffic among those who choose. to, sell or buy, them; that
the carriage of such tickets by independent carriers from one: State to
another is therefore Interstate commerce; that under its powet to regu-
late commerce among the several States Congress, subject to the limita-

tions Imposed, 'by the Constitution upon the exercise of the powers
granted, has plenary authority over such commerce and may prohibit
the carriage of such tickets from State to State. (P. 363.)
Chief Justice Fuller in his dissenting opinion in that case,
and speaking. for three other justices, said:
Nobody Would pretend that persons could be kept off the trains
because they were going from one State to another to. engage in the
lottery business.
And this assertion of the Chief Justice does not seem to have
been disagreed to by any member of the court. We further
quote fr6m the language of the Chief Justice:
The power to prohibit the transportation of diseased animals or
Infected goods over railroads or on steamboats is an entirely different
thing, for they would be in themselves. injurious to the transaction of
interstate commerce, and, moreover, are essentially commercial In their
nature.  And the exclusion of diseased persons rests on different
ground, for nobody would pretend that persons. could be kept off the
trains because they were going from one State to another to engage in
the lottery business. However enticing that business may be, we do
not understand these pieces of paper themselves can communicate bad
principles by contact. (P. 374.).
Yet this bill undertakes to prohibit by punishment the aiding
of the transportation, of any persons who may be going from
one State to. another for immoral purposes, whether they be
aliens or citizens.
TIES FOLICM rOWER.
As we have asserted, and it can, be sustained by abundant
authority from the Supreme Court of the United States, Con-
gress can. not exercise police power, because the authority to do
so. is-not given it by the Constitution, except in those localities
over which it has exclusive jurisdiction, as, for instance, in the
District of Columbia, the Territories, and the outlying posses,
sions. It is an axiomatic proposition, and one constantly up-
held, by the recent decisions of'the Supreme Court. of the United
States, that the Government of the United States is one of liin-
ited, delegated powers, among which the police power is not
included', and that by the tenth amendment to the Constitution
the police power is expressly reserved to. the several States and
the people thereof; and this policepower of the States. is com-
plete, unqualified, and. exclusive.
The following are somet of the cases on the. subject:
United States v. De Witt (9 Wall., 41); United States v. Reece (92
U. S., 111) ; Miunn case, Illinois (94 U.  , 13) ;. Hannibal v. Houston
(95 U. S., 465) ;. One, hundred. and ninth United States 3; the License
cases (5. How., 631) ; Passenger cases (7 How,, 283) ; Barbier v. Con-
nally ('113 U. §., 27) ; Fifth. Wallace, 470; Ninety-second United States
542; Gibbons v. Ogden (9 Wheat.).
In the case last cited, Gibbons v. Ogden,. Chief Justice Mar,.
shall, delivering the opinion of the, court, said:
Inspection, laws, quarantine laws, health laws of every description,
laws affecting morals, good order, and general welfare, and laws regu-
lating the internal commerce of the State,, etc., form a part of that
Immense mass of legislation which embraces everything within the ter-
ritory of the State not surrendered to the General Government. No
direct eneral power over these subjects is left to Congress, and, con-
sequently,. they remain subject to state legislation.
In the case of New York v. Miln (11 Pet., 133) the court
held-.
That a State has the same undeniable and, unlimited jurisdiction
over all persons and things within Its territorial limits as any' foreign
nation where that jurisdiction- is not surrendered or restrained. by the.
Constitution of the United States.
That by 'virtue of this, it is not only the right, but the bounden and
solemn duty of a State to advance the safety, happiness, and pros-
perity of its. people and to, provide for its general welfare by any and
every act of legislation which It may deem to be conducive to these
ends, where the power over the particular or the manner of its exercise
is not surrendered or restrained in the manner just stated.
That all these powers which relate merely to. a municipal legIslw.
tion or what may perhaps more properly be called "internal police,"
are not thus, surrendered or restrained; and that, consequently, in rela-
tion to these, the authority of a State is complete, unqualified, and
exclusive.
But it is claimed that this Is obiter dicta; yet in the Slaugh-
terhouse cases (16 Wall., 63) Justice Miller cites the case of
New York 'v. Miln with approval; and, again, in case of King
v. American Transportation Company (14 Fed. Cas., 513), the
court affirm Min v. New York.
In the Passenger cases (7 How., 400) Judge McLean said:
In giving the commercial power to Congress, the State did not part
with that power of self-preservation which must be Inherent in every
organized community. They may guard against the introduction of
anything which may corrupt the morals or endanger the lives or health
of their citizens.
In the case of Patterson. v. Kentucky (9.7' U. '., 505) Justice
Harlan said.:
We have frequently- decided that the, police power of the States was
not surrendered when the, Constitution conferred, upon Congress the
power to. regulate commerce with foreign nations and between the
several States; hence .the States may by police regulations protect
their people against the introduction within their respective limits of
infected merchandise. A bale of goods upon which duties have or have
not been. paid; laden with, infection,. may be seized under health laws,
and: if It. can not be purged of its poison may be committed to the
flames. So may the States, by like regulations, exclude from- their
midst not only convicts, paupers, idiots, lunatics, and persons likely to

522



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0527.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOTUSE.

become a public charge, but animals having contagious diseases. This
court has never hesitated, by the most rigid rules of construction, to
guard the commercial power of Congress against encroachments in the
form or under the guise of state regulations, established for the pur-
pose and with the effect of impairing rights secured by the Constitu-
tion. It has, nevertheless, with marked directness and uniformity.
recognized the necessity, growing out of the fundamental conditions of
civil society, of upholding state police regulations which were enacted
in good faith and had appropriate and direct connection with that pro-
tection to life, health, and property which each State owes to her
citizens.
And the Supreme Court of the United States has frequently
since that case decided that the police power of the State was
not surrendered when the Constitution conferred upon Congress
the power to regulate commerce between the several States.
If the State can protect itself against the introduction within
its borders of infected merchandise and may exclude from its
midst paupers, idiots, lunatics, and persons likely to become
a public charge, and animals infected with contagious disease,
surely the State may protect itself and its citizens and moral-
ity of its people by excluding from its midst persons who come
into the State for immoral purposes and to corrupt the morals
of the citizens of the State.
In the case of Husen v. Railroad Company (95 U. S., 465) the
Supreme Court said that the police power of the State extended
to the making of regulations promotive of domestic order,
morals, health, and safety, and that the police power of a
State justified the adoption of precautionary measures against
social evils and the enactment of such laws as would have im-
mediate connection with the protection of persons and property
against the noxious acts of others; and the Supreme Court
in the case of Plumley v. Massachusetts (114 U. S., 461)
cited the Husen case with approval.
In the case of L'Hote v. New Orleans (177 U. S., 587) the
Supreme Court said that the police power was not by the
Federal Constitution transferred to the Nation, but was re-
served to the States, and that upon them rests the duty of so
exercising it as to protect the public health and morals.
In the License cases (5 How., 504) Chief Justice Taney said:
That it must be remembered that disease, pestilence, and pauperism
are not objects of commerce, although sometimes among the attendant
evils; they are not things to be trafficked in and regulated, but to
be prevented as far as human foresight and human means can guard
against them.
Surely Immorality and vice do not constitute traffic to
be regulated by the Congress of the United States, but are, like
disease, pestilence, and pauperism, to be prevented and pun-
ished by that authority and power which has the authority
to exercise the police power for the preservation of the morals,
health, and general welfare of the people, and this power re-
sides exclusively in the States.
The police power of the States extends to all matters re-
lating to the health, safety, and morals of its citizens, and to
everything referring to its domestic economy and of the rela-
tions of the people to each other and the States.
This was clearly decided by the License cases (5 How.,
631), per Justice Grier, in whose opinion cases on this subject
are cited:
See Federalist (No. 45, 216) ; Passenger cases (7 How., 523-530)
Groves v. Slaughter (15 Pet.) ; License cases (5 How., 589-631) ; Sixth
Greenleaf, 412 * Holmes v. Jennison (14 Pet., 568) ; Gibbons v. Ogden
(9 Wheat., 203) ; Mayor, etc., New York v. Miln (11 Pet., 133) ; Brown
v. Maryland (12 Wheat.. 441) ; Fourth Sandford, 492; Fifth Howard,
628 ; Seventh Howard, 414 ; Seventh Howard, 417; First Black, 608
(66 U. S.. ch. 17, 191), the case of Conway v. Taylor; Austin v. Ten-
nessee (179 U. S., 343).
In License cases (5 How., 632) the court say:
If the right to control these subjects be " incomplete, unqualified,
and exclusive" in the state legislatures, no regulations of secondary
importance can $upersede or restrain their operations on any ground
or prerogative 6l- supremacy. The existence of the social compact re-
quire that such laws be executed before and above all others.
It is for this reason that quarantine laws, which protect the public
health, compel mere commercial regulations to submit to their control.
They restrain the liberty of the passengers; they operate on the ship,
the agents of navigation. They seize the infected cargo and cast it
overboard. The soldier and the sailor, though in the service of the
Government, are arrested, imprisoned, and punished for their offenses
against society. 'aupers and convicts are refused admission Into the
country. All these things are done, not from any power which the
State assumes to regulate commerce or to interfere with the regula-
tions of Congress, but because police laws for the preservation of
health, prevention of crime, and protection of the public welfare, must
of necessity have full and free operation according to the exigency
which requires their interference.
In the City of New York v. Miln (36 U. S., 105; 11 Pet., 102),
at page 132, the court say:
Let us see what powers are left with the States. The Federalist,
in the forty-fifth number, speaking of this subject, says: "The power
reserved to the several States will extend to all objects which in the
ordinary course of affairs concern the lives, liberties, and properties of
the people, and the internal order, Improvement, and prosperity of the
State."
And this court, in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden (9 Wheat., 203), in
speaking of the inspection of the laws, say :

"They form a portion of that Immense mass of legislation which
embraces everything within the territory of a State not surrendered
to the General Government, all which can be most advantageously exer-'
cised by the States themselves."
In License cases (46 U. S., 631) the court say:
Where can such a power also be safer lodged than with those' public
bodies, or States, who are themselves to be the greatest sufferers In
Interest and character by an Improper use of it?
The States stand properly on their reserved rights, within their
own powers and sovereignty, to judge of the expediency and wisdom
of their own laws; and while they take care not to .violate clearly
any portion of the Constitution or statutes of the General Government,
our duty to that Constitution and laws and our respect for state rights
must require us not to Interfere.
In United States v. Knight (156 U. S., 11) Chief Justice
Fuller, rendering the opinion of the court, says:
It can not be denied that the power of a State to protect the lives,
health, and property of Its citizens, and to preserve good order and
the public morals, " the power to govern men and things within the
limits of its dominion," Is a power originally and always belonging to
the States, nor surrendered by them to the General Government, nor
directly restrained by the Constitution of the United States, and,
essentially, exclusive.
In Passenger cases (48 U. S., 405) the court say:
When the merchandise Is taken from the ship and becomes mingled
with the property of the people of the State, like other property, it is
subject to the local law; but until this shall have taken place, the mer-
chandise Is an import and Is not subject to the taxing power of the
State, and the same rule applies to passengers; when they leave the
ship and mingle with the citizens of the State, they become subject to
its laws.
In License cases (46 U. S.; 5 How., 576) Chief Justice Taney
says:
It has, Indeed, been suggested that If a State deems the traffic In
ardent spirits to be injurious to its citizens and calculated to intro-
duce Immorality, vice, and pauperism into the State, it may* constitu-
tionally refuse to permit ti  manipulation, notwithstanding the laws of
Congress, and that a State may do this upon the same principle that it
may resist and prevent the introduction of disease, pestilence, or pau-
perism from abroad. But it must be remembered that disease, pesti-
lence, and pauperism are not subjects of commerce, although some-
times among Its attendant evils. They are not things to be regulated
and trafficked In, but to be prevented, as far as human foresight or
human means can guard against them.
In the case of Houston v. Moore (5 Wheat., 48) the court say:
Nor ought any. power to be sought, much less to be adjudged, in
favor of the United States unless it be clearly within the reach of Its
constitutional character. Sitting here, we are not at liberty to add one
jot of power to the National Government beyond what the people have
granted by the Constitution.
A case which is decidedly in point can be found in The United
States v. Gould, which was the decision of the question whether
Congress had the right to pass a law not only to prohibit the im-
portation after 1808 of slaves, but also to make the harboring
or buying of slaves brought into the United States Illegally an
offense, and the court held that Congress could not make such
harboring or buying a crime. That when the African negro
was brought into the country in violation of the law of Con-
gress which prohibited their importation after 1808, the power
of Congress only extended to the prevention of such importa-
tion; but when they reached the United States and became com-
mingled with the masses of the people, Congress had no further
power over them and could not make it a crime to buy one or
restrain one of his liberty. This can be found in the American
Law Register, volume 8, page 825, and in the twenty-fifth
volume of Federal Cases, case No. 15239.
The principle sustained in the cases above cited is condensed
in the head notes to the case of The Mayor and Aldermen of
New York v. Miln (11 Pet.), as follows:
A State has the same undeniable and unlimited jurisdiction over all
persons and things within its territorial limits as any foreign nation
when that jurisdiction Is not surrendered or restrained by the Consti-
tution of the United States. It is not only the right but the bounden
and solemn duty of a State to advance the safety, happiness, and pros-
perity of Its people and to provide for its general welfare by any and
every act of legislation which it may deem conducive to these ends
when the powers over the particular subject are not surrendered or re-
strained by the Constitution of the United States.
All those powers which relate to merely municipal legislation, or
which may be more properly called internal police, are not surrendered
or restrained, and consequently in relation to these the authority of the
State Is complete, unqualified, and exclusive.
In the opinion rendered by Judge Barbour, the statement is
made that these positions are considered "as impregnable." In
defining what is meant by the "police powers" of the State, the
court said:
Every law comes within this description which concerned the welfare
of the whole people of a State or any individual within It, whether it
related to their rights or duties ; whether it respected them as men,
or as citizens of the State ; whether In their public or private relations ;
whether it related to the rights of persons or of property of the whole
people of a State or of any Individual within it, and whose operation
was within the territorial limits of the State, and upon the persons
and things within its jurisdiction.

1910.

523



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0528.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD--HOUSE .

JANUARY 11,

This is- so by, reason! of article 10 of the Constitution, which
declares that-
The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution,
nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved: to the States respectively,
or to the people.
-Nor -is this principle affected. by the fourteenth, amendment,
and Congress can: not in. pursuance, of it exercise power over'
the affairs of police in the States. The exercise of the police
power is inherent In the States, resides there,. and, is not under
the. control of the- Federal Congress;, and this: has, been, re-
peatedly decided by the Supreme Court of the United States.
Some of the cases are the foliowing:
United States v. Do Wltt (9 Wall., 41), where it is stated. that this
principle Is; so well: fixed' as to be beyond, all:. controversy.
License cases (5, How., 621) ; Passenger, cases (7 How, 283) ; Bar-
bier v. Connally (113 U. S., 27); License Tax. cases, 470; 'United
States v. Reese (92 U. S., 214),'; Unild States. v.. Cruikshanks (92 U. S.,
542) ;: Wilkinson v., Rahrer (140 U. S;, 545); Gibbons. v. Ogden (9
Wheat., 205).
In. the. case last, cited the court said that this; was., legislation
which, "can be most advantageously' exercised by, the. States
themselves."
In the case of. thel United States v.- De Witt,, supra-, which was
a case where Congress had passed an. act. prohibiting the sale
of certain kinds: of oil, or of oil unable. to, undergo a fire. test,
and Del Witt was indicted for' the. sale of oil prohibited by the
act of Congress,. and it was: held' that such act. was. plainly a
police. regulation, relating, exclusively. to the internal trade of,
the State, and therefore beyond the power of Congress to pass..
It could therefore be operative only within, the: District. of Co-
lumbia. (See also Civil Rights case (109 U. S., 3) ; Slaughter-
house. cases, (16 Wall.,, 36)..),
In. the case of:I Cruilshanks. (92 U* S, 542) the Supreme Court
say :
The. duty of protecting- allt of its: citizene' in the  enjoyment of an
equality of rights. was originall. assumed by., the States, and. it remains
tlere.
It. must follow; fromt these' decisions, that: the Federal Gov-
ernment. has no; police: power;, and can not exercise any such
within the several States. The: exercise of this power' is exclu4
sively one for the. state legislatures,, and it can not be infringed
by' the General Government nor surrendered by' the- States; To
quote. the- language of. the. Supreme Court in' the- case, of Cruik-
shanks (92 U.. S,. 542), the duty of' protection to its citizens In
the: enjoyment, of' equality- of' rights and! protecting, them in
health and general welfare was originally assumed by. the
States, and remains there., This: was. again. affirmed. in the
Civil. Rlghts  cases. (109. U.. S:, 3).. The. right, of' the, States to
exercise police power over matters like; that. contained in this
bill has been. frequently upheld by, the Supreme. Court. of the
United States,
-What are some of the principal subjects, frequently mentioned.
by the Supreme; Court of the United States. in its decisions
and by. law. writers as being, peculiarly under the police power
of the States., They are, the. preservation, of the. public health;
sanitary laws, laws preventing the, introduction, of contagious.
diseases,, to prevent the pollution of. waters,, the. promotion of'
the public safety;. and especially the protection, of. the public
morals.
The proposition: is, stated thus; by the' decisions of: the court
and' by the law writers: The object of' the police power is to
protect the public morals by regulating: or preventing. such
acts,, practices, or occupations as are. in: themselves, immoral,
indecent, or have a tendency to promote immorality or. inde
cency. .The Supreme Court of the United. States have uni-
formly decided that over these subjects--that Is, the regulation
of' the public' morals and the prevention, of. such. acts; practices,
or occupations as. are, in themselves immoral; indecent, or ha.e
a tendency to, promote Immorality or indecency-the: power- of
the States: remains- supreme and' has never been. surrendbred' to
the, General Government,. and they have: exclusive: control over,
the same;.
Lawton.v. SteeleI (152 U. S., 133).;, Patterson v. Kentucky' (:97' U. S.,
501),;. Barbler. v. Connally- (113' U. St 271) ;. Boston. Beer. Company v.
Mtassachusetts (97' U.. S., 25) ; New Orieans, etc., Company' v, St. Tamr
many County (14' Fed'. R., 194) ;, Stone v. Mays (101 U. S,, 814')'; In re.
Crisindlne (83 Fed. Rep., 157) ;' Flfty,elghth; American' Rep, 443.
The: tendency of the times has. been, toi appeal to Congress
to regulate: anl! the evils, with which we may be afflicted. As.
Congress. has no power granted it by the: Constitution to. pre-,
scribe laws or make offenses, or punish therefor in the States,.
resort has been, had! to the. commerce- clause of. the. Constitu-
tion; and. by resort to' this: clause of. the Constitution the' feieral
power- to, regulate commerce has been wonderfully developed
MI'any safe and! salutary laws: have: been enacted. properly and.
upheld, by the Supreme Court and great- good, has been, accom-
plished. by them- The public satisfaction, resulting from, the!

enactment andi enforcement of statutes: passed by Congress
under the power to: regulate commerce has induced many per-
sons to believe that this power of Congress to regulate coat-
merce is a. panacea. for every public evil., and this bill now pro-
poses to utilize that power to accomplish an end. which, in our
'opinion, is not within the national. jurisdiction and has no rela-
tion to the subject of the power granted to Congress to regulate:
commerce    This. bill Is not a regulation of commerce. Its
general purpose and effect will be to create an offense and. pun-
'ish therefor, Just as if Congress had the right to exercise police
power, over the entire Union-
In. the case of Gibbons 'v. Ogden, Chief Justice Marshall said':-
The power to, regulate Is the power to prescribe the rules by which.
commerce Is to be governed, and this power extends to. commerce itself.
and the instrumentalities of commerce.
Congress, for, instance, can, say that commerce shall be free,
from monopoly and restraint effected by' combinations, and that'
the. general rule of competition shall haive free play. Congress'
can prescribe: safety appliances for railroads, the hours of labor.
of employees, upon railroads engaged in interstate. commerce.
Over this commerce among, the several States and foreign. na-
tions andt its instrumentalities the. power of Congress is abso-
lute. But when Congress undertakes to use this power to. regu-
late. commerce as a pretext under which to exercise police
power elsewhere than in the District of' Columbia, the Terri-
tories, and other places; over which it has. exclusive jurisdiction,,
Congress. exceeds its authority. The Importance and seriousness:
of this question, whether Congress, can. thus, by undertaking to!
regulate: commerce, exercise. police power within, the States, can
not be, overstated, because, upon its proper limitation must de-
pend the autonomy of the States and their right to control, all'
matters- of internal police.
This bill proceeds' upon the assumption that under the guise.
of' regulating commerce; not necessary, for the promotion, or
protection! of commerce, Congress" may enact a law and pre-
scribe an offensel whicl it could not otherwise, do; or, in' other
words, Congress! may deny, to. persons: the right to engage in
interstate. commerce or punish them for so. doing; when. Con-
gress has not the: power toi prohibit- the. person. from doing the
act which is. made a: crime,, or to, punish therefor.
In the case of McCullough v. Maryland, Chief Justice lMar-
shallt said:
Should  Congress under the pretext of. executing its powers pass laws
for the. accomplishment of objects not. Intrusted, to the Government, it
would: become the, painful duty of this tribunal, should a case requiring
such: a decision come before it.. to. say'- that such: ani act was not the
law. of the land:
In. other words,. I deny' that the power to; regulate commerce
between the States gives Congress: the power to: prohibit com
merce, or' to punish for carrying: on such, commerce, unless- the
law has. for' its' purpose, the: facilitation, safety-, or protection of
commercial intercourse, or, the accomplishment- of' some other
national purpose.   ) do' not deny that Congress; can. regulate
commerce, but I deny that Congress can,. in attempting to
regulate commerce passi beyond the federal' power or do some.
thing dehors the federal power.
In. a' recent case in the Supreme Cburt: of: the. United States
the Chief Justice, speaking on the power and' sovereignty of the.
State said:
ft can' not, be denied, that the power of the State. to protect the. lives,
health, and property- of Its' citizens: and to, preserve good order and
public' morals; the power to. govern men. and things.within the limits- of
its domain, is a power originally and always belonging to the States,
not surrendered by them, to the General Government, nor directly,
restrained by the Constitutlbn' of' the. United. States; and' essentially.
exclusive
Congress has no general legislative police powers, but only
such as are, granted by the Constitution. This is not an old
fashioned and exploded notion. Justice Brewer; in. the case of
Colorado v. Kansas (206. U. S.), says:.
That  this is such. a Government-.
One of delegated powers--
clearly appears from the Constitution, independently of the amendments
for otherwise there would be an instrument granting certain specified
things made operative to grant other and distinct things. This natural
construction: of the original body of the Constitution Is made absolutely,
certain by the tenth amendment. This amendment, which was seem,
ingly adopted with prescience of just such. contention, as. the present,
disclosed the widespread: fear, that the National. Government might,
under the pressure of a supposed general- welfare, attempt: to exercise
powers which had not, been, granted. With, equal determination the
framers' intended that no such assumption should' ever find justification
in the organic act, and that if in the future further powers- seemed
necessary they should be granted; by the, people Ia the. manner they had
provided for amending'that act.
But it is, said. that the constitutionality of this. bill should be
left., to. the: Supreme Court of the United. States,, as the subject-
matter of the bill is one of great national importance ana the
evils sought to: be remedied axe! very great: It must be remem-

524



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0529.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

bered that the preservation of the Constitution is not left alone
to the federal judiciary.    Every legislative, executive, and
judicial officer takes an oath-bound obligation to support and
maintain it, and to respect and observe it is the highest duty of
every private citizen, and I know no more solemn duty of a
Member of Congress than to vote as his conscience dictates on
questions of this character.
Said John Fiske, the author and historian of international
reputation:
If the day should ever arrive-which God forbid-when the people
of the different parts of the country shall allow their local affairs to
be administered by prefects sent from Washington, and when the self-
government of the States shall have been so far lost as that of the
departments of France, or even so closely limited as that of the Coun-
ties of England, on that day the political career of the American
people will have been robbed of its most interesting and valuable fea-
tures, and the usefulness of this Nation will be lamentably Impaired.
Legislation like that proposed in this bill, and other proposed
or pending in this House, if enacted into law, will hasten the day
.when the individuality of the States and the citizens of the
States will be destroyed, and we must look to the General Gov-
ernment for the administration of every kind of law. While
popular clamor may impel some to approve of this centraliza-
tion of all powers in the Federal Government, I must, in obedi-
ence to my judgment and the belief of a lifetime, oppose it.
I have no apology to offer for my adherence to what I con-
iceive to be my duty to follow the Constitution of the United
States and to oppose legislation which violates the plain letter
as well as the spirit of that great instrument, the foundation
and basis of his dual confederated Republic of ours.
To quote from Judge Story, whose ability, learning, and
-legal acquirements have marked him as one of the foremost
lawyers and made him one of the most distinguished of the
Judiciary of our country-
The structure has been erected by architects of consummate skill and
fidelity; its foundations are solid; Its compartments are beautiful as
well as useful; the arrangements are full of wisdom and order; and
Its defenses are impregnable from without. It has been reared for
Immortality If the work of man may justly aspire to such a title. It
may, nevertheless, perish in an hour by the folly or corruption or
negligence of its only keepers, the people.
It is well to recall here the words of President Washington
In his Farewell Address to the American people:
If, in the opinion of the people, the distribution or modification of
'the constitutional powers be in any particular wrong, let it be cor-
rected by an amendment In the way which the Constitution desig-
nates. But let there be no change by usurpation; for, though this in
one instance may be the instrument of good, it is the customary weapon
by which free governments are destroyed. The ,precedent must always
greatly overbalance in permanent evil any partial or transient benefit
which the use can at any time yield.
President Lincoln, in his first message, said:
To maintain inviolate the rights of the States to order and control
,Under the ConstItution their own affairs by their own judgment ex-
clusively is essential for the preservation of that balance of power on
,Which our institutions rest.
Nor would it be amiss to quote the language of Chief Justice
Marshall, In the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, whose decisions on
'constitutional questions did more to define the power of Con-
gress and to enlarge it from what was originally believed to
be granted than any other force operating in the history -of our
Government:
The genius and character of the whole Government seem to be that
Its action is to be applied to all the external concerns of the Nation,
and to those internal concerns which affect the States generally ; but
not to those which are completely within a particular State, and with
.which it is not necessary to interfere, for the purpose of executing some
of the general powers of the Government.
The words of Thomas Jefferson, in my judgment the wisest
statesman this country has ever produced, may well be quoted
for the benefit of those on this side who claim that they do
not believe in the concentration of all power in the hands of
the General Government:
No, my friends-
Said he-
the way to have good and safe government is not to trust it all to
one, but to divide it up amongst the many, distributing to every one
exactly the functions he is competent to. Let the National Government
be intrusted with the defense of the Nation and its foreign .and federal
relations; the State with the civil rights, laws, police, and administra-
tion of what concerns the State generally ; the counties with the local
concerns of the counties ; and each ward direct the interests within
itself. It is by dividing and subdividing these republics, from  the
great national one down through all its subordinations, until it ends
in the administration of every man's affairs by himself, by placing
under every one what his own eye may superintend, that all will be
'done for the best. What destroys liberty and the rights of man in
every government which has ever existed under the sun? The gen-
eralizing and concentrating all cares and powers into one body, no
matter whether of the autocrats of Russia or France or the aristocrats
of the Venetian Senate.
With Washington and Jefferson and Lincoln and Marshall
and Taney; with Brewer and White and Fuller, who have in-
terpreted lately the Constitution and declared that this power

does not belong to Congress, I am content to stand, Mr. Speaker;
to put my feet in the ancient ways of the fathers and to march
on in the old way; and no power, no clamor that pretends to
marshal its forces under the banner of reform and for the cor-
rection of immorality shall force or compel me to abandon the
teaching and the doctrines of the fathers; and though I stand
alone, I shall always be found casting my vote against a meas-
ure like this provision in this bill, to which I have called
attention, or to any that may come into the House hereafter
which violates the intent of that great instrument in an attempt
to concentrate in Congress police powers, thereby to override
and destroy the police powers of the States and to make of
them nothing but provinces. [Applause.]
Mr. BENNET of New York. Mr. Speaker, I yield five min-
utes to the gentleman from Tennessee [Mr. AuSTIN].
Mr. AUSTIN. Mr. Speaker, in the brief time granted I wish
to make public acknowledgment to the committee for bringing
forward this valuable and needed legislation. My only criti-
cism of the bill is that it does not go far enough, and I enter-
tain the hope that before its final consideration the distin-
guished gentleman in charge of the same will accept certain
amendments which I believe to be of vital interest to the Ameri-
can people. This bill carries with it the highest evidence of the
present inefficiency of the enforcement of the immigration laws
of our country. We have had upon our statute books for many
years a provision excluding the criminal classes, and yet we all
know that our country is being made the dumping ground for
the criminafs of all the European countries. We have our doors
wide open for every race on the face of the earth except the.
Chinese. This ceaseless and constant flood of immigration,
good, indifferent, and worthless, with an annual average of
more than a million people from the four corners of the earth,
in my judgment means more to the peace and civilization of
our country than any question upon which this body can pos-
sibly legislate.
This bill ought to carry a provision against that Infamous
band known as the "Black Hand," which has its American
home in the city of New York and branches in many of our
ofher cities. If we are to exclude undesirables, let us include
this class of notorious blackmailers and assassins, who ought
never to be permitted to land upon our shores. We ought to
extend the exclusion and embrace the Asiatics, those who in
time will be pouring into our Western States from across the
Pacific Ocean. We ought to exclude the ignorant, for' the num-
ber of illiterates last year had increased until the percentage
reached 29 per cent of the total number that were admitted.
We ought to carry In this bill an appropriation that will enable
the Immigration Bureau to thoroughly investigate the class,
condition, and character of the people who are seeking to be-
come citizens, before they are passed by our agents on the other
side. No man should be permitted to land in America as a
future citizen who Is unable to furnish from the local authori-
ties of his home town, village, or district a certificate of good
moral character, a record for industry and obedience to law.
Let us welcome the honest, the industrious, the worthy, and
the deserving, but keep out for all time the anarchists, the
bomb throwers, the Black Hands, and the most despised of all,
those engaged in the infamous white-slave traffic.
Mr. Speaker, I have had some personal experience, extending
over a year, observing the loading of immigrants for America,
witnessing eight times every month the method of the embarka-
tion and examination of foreigners bound for America, and
I say upon my responsibility as a Member of this House that
investigations on the other side are a fraud and an Impo-
sition upon the American people and an evasion of our laws.
It will continue as long as steamship companies are interested
in improving, extending, and increasing their business, with
great armies of field agents going over all of Europe with
"fine-tooth combs" gathering up immigrants from all lands
and of all shades of characters and conditions and permitted
to land them upon our shores.
I hope this measure will receive practically a unanimous vote,
and that it may be strengthened and enlarged in the inter-
ests of the future welfare and happiness of the American
people. [Applause.]
Mr. MANN. Mr. Speaker, I yield thirty minutes to the gen-
tleman from Alabama [Mr.. RICHARDSON].
Mr. RICHARDSON. Mr. Speaker, I am opposed to this bill,
and I am opposed to it on fundamental principles, because it
seeks by pretext and guise to exercise police power. I shall
not in the few remarks I make say anything whatever that will
tend to apologize for or condone the evil complained of and this
bill seeks to remedy. I have as much faith as any American
citizen has in the desire and purpose of the American people to

1910.

525



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0530.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-0USE.

JANUARY 11,

protect and uphold the sanctity and chastity of our women. It
must be apparent to us.all from the knowledge that we have of
the lines of demarkation, shadowy and indistinct as they are
sometimes on some subjects, between the power of a State and
the authority of the Federal Government. I believe that a bill
6f this character and importance ought to receive the careful,
considerate, and earnest attention of every Member of the
House. I am fully aware as I stand here this afternoon on this
floor that there is throughout this country a very large number
of benevolent men and women, together with philanthropic as-
sociations composed of both men and women, who are very
much prone from the best motives to indorse and to uphold any
measure that seemingly stands for reform or to correct an evil,
regardless of whether Congress has any lawful right to -enter
on such a field of legislation or not.
I say that this sentiment and this spirit of reform prevails
In this country at this time more than ever before in the his-
tory of this Republic. I do not condemn such a spirit, but we
ought to be wary and watchful. I am aware, too, Mr. Speaker,
of another class of people who are in our Republic, who are
daily, to my joy and satisfaction, growing less and less and
