yellow oleomargarine at all, according
to the Armour Research Foundation of
the Illinois Institute of Technology. The
reason for this is that the naturally tan
or brown cottonseed and soybean oils
must be hydrogenated in order to turn
them into fat. The hydrogenation proc-
ess turns cottonseed oil into a pale gray-
green substance, whereas soybean oil be-
comes a sort of tattle-tale gray when thus
processed. These    hydrogenated   fats
must then be bleached, not because of
Federal laws but in order to remove un-
desirable odors, tastes, and colors.
Oleomargarine manufacturers have
not the slightest basic claim to the color
yellow, no matter how carefully we ex-
amine their operations. Even the orange

coloration of palm-kernel oil, which oil
must be imported and presumably does
not meet with the approval of southern
Senators who are legislating so whole-
heartedly for oleomargarine, cannot be
counted upon to carry through the hy-
drogenation process and lend a butter-
yellow tint to the finished product. The
palest winter butter is deeper in hue than
any oleomargarine produced without
artificial coloring.
Assuming that oleomargarine manu-
facturers were forced from the very be-
ginning to bleach their product white in
order to make it palatable, why did they
then select yellow as the one color in the
spectrum that they wanted to add to
make it sell? A vast variety of jams,
jellies, and other table spreads has been
successfully marketed in this country in
a multiplicity of colors ranging from the
pale green of mint jelly to the deep
purple of grape jam, all of them appetiz-
ing. The housewife has not discrimi-
nated against any of these products
simply because they were offered to her
in some color other than yellow. On the
contrary, she has bought them in tre-
mendous quantities.
Is it not possible that the oleomar-
garine manufacturers decided on yellow
as a desirable color simply because that
is the color of pure creamery butter? Is
it not possible that the oleo interests
have long sought, and still seek, to profit
by the quality, reputation, and good will
of local creameries through outright imi-
tation of butter's naturally yellow color?
Yes, Mr. President, those things are pos-
sible; they are, in fact, probable. But it
is not possible to argue successfully that
all oleomargarine should be colored yel-
low because a small percentage of cream-
ery butter receives an even smaller pro-
portion of artificial coloring.
"OLEO IS A FRIEND OF THE AMERICAN FARMER"
Now we come to an often-used argu-
ment advanced in certain quarters by
the oleo lobby, to the effect that oleo-
margarine is a friend of the American
farmer. The sponsors of this propa-
ganda line point out that cottonseed oil
comes from cotton; that soybean oil
comes from soybeans; and that both
cotton and soybeans are raised on farms,
and must be classified as farm products.
Having established these points firmly in
the minds of their listeners, they then
proceed to state that oleomargarine
manufacturers buy cottonseed and soy-
bean oils and consequently are friends
of the American farmer.
The oleo spokesmen carefully omit
any mention of the not-too-remote past,
when the industry excused its use of
cheap, imported palm and coconut oils
by maintaining that a satisfactory oleo-
margarine could not be made from do-
mestic vegetable oils. That dilemma was
solved for them by farm representatives
in the Congress, who erected tariff bar-
riers against the importation of foreign
oils produced by what amounted to slave
labor. Immediately the oleomargarine
manufacturers   discovered  that   they
could, after all, use our own American
oils satisfactorily.
Before the war much, if not most, of
our oleomargarine came from sources
which helped the American farmer not

1950



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0354.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

JANUARY 12

one iota; but, on the contrary, contrib-
uted to the strength of big business cor-
porations and international cartels which
controlled the world markets in fats and
oils. Now that the war is over, a con-
siderable quantity of palm and coconut
oils is once more reaching our shores and
is being used in the manufacture of oleo-
margarine, despite the processing tax
imposed for the benefit of our southern
farmers.
There has been nothing whatever In
all the arguments for repeal legislation
advanced by the oleo lobby to indicate
that domestic oils will continue to be
used in their product. I have heard or
read no statement emanating from the
oleomargarine industry to the effect that
foreign oils will not be substituted for
American   cottonseed  or soybean    oil
whenever the market warrants, or when-
ever world prices sink low enough to
justify it, or whenever the oleo interests
decide that their own selfish aims will
be better served by drawing upon the
overseas plantations they control.
Meanwhile, it is worth remembering
that every pound of butter displaced by
a pound of yellow oleomargarine in 1947,
fraudulently or otherwise, reduced the
income of American agriculture by 46.9
cents. Farmers received only 12.8 cents
from each pound of oleomargarine sold
that year, but they received 69.6 cents
from every pound of butter sold. Is it
the work of a friend to take nearly 70
cents from the hands of American farm-
ers every time a pound of oleo displaces
a pound of butter, and to give only 13
cents in return?
Oleomargarine manufacturers argue
that producers of soybeans and cotton
would be greatly benefited by the un-
regulated sale of yellow oleo. This is
not true, because little or no increase
is to be expected in the price of cotton-
seed and soybean oils, and the reduc-
tions in dairy herds would deprive these
producers of a significant portion of their
market for cottonseed and soybean
meals. The United States is in a fat-
deficit position in normal times. Usu-
ally we import far more fats than we
export. It was only during the war when
the major copra- and coconut-oil-pro-
ducing countries, the Philippines and the
Netherlands East Indies, were under the
control of the Japanese, that we exported
more than we imported. Since the war
we have again become a net importer.
Coconut, palm, and related vegetable
oils from foreign sources in normal times
establish, or certainly have a vast influ-
ence in establishing, the price of domes-
tic vegetable oils. Industrial users of
fats and oils shift their raw-material
ingredients as price relationships war-
rant. Coconut oil is very competitive
with cottonseed and soybean oil. There-
fcre,-prices for cottonseed and soybean
oil in this country will be held -n a close
relationship to the prices of coconut oil,
due to their interchangeability of use.
An increase in the prices of cottonseed
and soybean oil relative to coconut oil;
therefore, will merely cause an increase
in imports of coconut oil.
Since cottonseed and soybean oil are
sold on a flat-price basis, without regard
to use, the oil used in edible products will

bring no different price than that of the
same grade going into inedible uses.
This is quite unlike the dairy industry,
where for many years the principle of
classification according to use has been
recognized. In view of these facts, it is
obvious that cottonseed-oil and soybean-
oil prices will not increase if restrictions
on oleomargarine are removed. Any in-
crease would cause an increase of im-
ports in coconut oil and other foreign
fats and oils. The net result, therefore,
would be to increase imports of cheap
foreign oils-not to increase prices to
domestic vegetable-oil producers.
The world oils and fats supply is im-
proving. In the Philippines production
was retarded by 1948 by serious typhoon
damage, but is again on the upgrade.
Exports from the Dutch East Indies are
increasing rapidly, although still consid-
erably  below   prewar   levels. "United
States production of the four major do-
mestic edible oils-soybean, cottonseed,
corn, and peanut-is expected to be
about 10 to 15 percent above a year ago.
The supply has improved to the extent
that the Fats and Oils Committee of the
International Emergency Food Commit-
tee has discontinued the allocation of
world oils and fats supplies among im-
porting nations. This amounts to offi-
cial recognition, on the part of the na-
tions involved that the oils and fats
shortage is at an end.
Thus, we have the peculiar state of
affairs where an industry is asking the
Congress, on behalf of the cottonseed
and soybean producers, to pass legisla-
tion which will not benefit those pro-
ducers. First, it will not result in any
long-run increase in domestic vegetable-
oil prices. The price of these oils is de-
termined by the world price levels of
competitive oils, the raw materials of
which are produced by people with prim-
itive living standards and, therefore, at
very low cost.
Second, all. of the cottonseed and soy-
bean oil produced in this country is now
finding outlets, and has for many years
been finding outlets. There is no need
to increase outlets which could not be
filled by production of these oils. We
should note that the production of soy-
beans and cotton is already heavily sub-
sidized by the Federal Government
under price-support programs. Is it
wise public policy to encourage a legis-
lative program which will, in the long
run, merely increase importation of
cheap foreign oils while at the same time
subsidizing  domestic    vegetable  oils
through price supports?
Soybean oil was not very important
until Government programs to encour-
age soybean production during the war
were initiated to offset loss of copra and
coconut oil from the Philippines and the
Dutch East Indies. Further, we should
note that dairy products are subject to
price support. Is it wise public policy to
drive down the price of butter through
removal of oleomargarine regulation,
which we would surely do, while in other
legislation we order the support of butter
prices through price-support programs?
We would then have the unusual situa-
tion of the Congress forcing the reduc-
tion of prices on the one hand, and on

the other hand demanding their mainte-
nance through price support.
The only thing that could be done to
dispose of such butter, except for small
amounts for school lunch and relief pro-
grams, would be to dump it abroad or
turn it into soap. This would be a most
wasteful and uneconomic policy, and
dumping would raise another confusing
conflict in national foreign trade policy.
The reduction of dairy herds, which
will be a longer-run result of the re-
moval of regulation on oleomargarine,
will diminish the market for one of the
most important byproducts of cottonseed
and soybeans. A reduction of 2,000,000
head in the national dairy herd, which I
predict will follow removal of all oleo-
margarine regulations, will sharply re-
duce the demand for, and the price of,
cottonseed and soybean meal.
With respect to the major cotton
States, they stand to lose far more by a
reduction in dairy production and prices
than they could possibly gain from re-
moval of oleomargarine regulations. In
the 10 major cotton-producing States,
the total farm cash income from dairy
products and butter in 1946 was several
times the farm value of cottonseed-oil
production.   The value of cottonseed
meal sold to dairymen was actually
greater than the value of cottonseed oil
used in oleo.
"OLEO IS OPPOSED BY A POWERFUL BUTTER
LOBBY"
Mr. President, I have already men-
tioned the fact that the oleo propaganda
machine has managed to transform, into
a sort of ogre known as the butter lobby,
some 2,500,000 individual dairy farmers.
If that is what is meant by a butter lobby,
we must also add 250,000 employees of
dairy plants throughout the Nation, plus
all the workers employed in the supply
industries that serve the dairy industry.
In all, it has been estimated that some
10,000,000 people derive their livelihood
from the production and distribution of
milk and milk products, and it is cer-
tainly true that all these people repre-
sent a considerable number of votes.
However, very few of the metropolitan
newspapers, which delight in printing
pieces about the butter lobby, seem to be
aware of the existence of the much more
powerful oleomargarine lobby with mil-
lions of dollars more to spend than
dairymen ever thought of spending. The
reports filed under the Federal Lobbying
Act prove the existence of this oleo lobby,
and demonstrate that it is considerably
better heeled than the dairy and farm
organizations that oppose it. The oleo
lobby at its best, however, lacks one qual-
ity that is essential to the successful fur-
therance of legislation-it is not truly
representative of either producers or
consumers.
I wish to say, Mr. President, that I am
very happy this afternoon to speak on
the floor of the Senate as a representa-
tive of farm interests in respect to the
problem before us. I shall be perfectly
willing to defend before the people of my
State any editorial attack that attributes
to me being a part of a farm bloc. If
fighting on the floor of the Senate of the
United States for the protection of the
best interests of the dairy farmers of



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0355.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

the country, and thereby the best in-
terests of agriculture generally, and
thereby the best interests of American
workers and consumers generally, is to
subject me to the criticism that I am a
spokesman for the farm bloc, I am happy
to plead guilty, and I intend, so long as
I serve in the Senate of the United States,
to be one who can be counted upon to rise
in defense of the best Interests of the
American farmer, because protecting the
best interests of the American farmer is
essential to protecting the best economic
interests of American consumers gen-
erally.
I am happy also, Mr. President, to
plead guilty this afternoon to being op-
posed to the oleo lobby, and the tactics
they have used in the attempt to impose
upon American consumers the type of
imitation and misrepresentation that
constitutes their stock in trade.
The millions of dairy-farm families
in this Nation are both producers and
consumers, as any small-town merchant
or banker, or businessman, can testify.
There are 3,500 local creameries in this
country, scattered throughout all the 48
States, which turn the dairy farmer's
surplus milk into butter, and give him a
weekly check in return. Those creamery
checks pay store bills in town, and any
merchant can tell you how important
that cash farm income Is to the business
life of his community. The dairy farmer
is not only a seller but a buyer, and he
does his buying in his own home town.
I have no way of knowing how many
workers are employed by the five giant
oleomargarine companies that do almost
70 percent of the oleo business, but I
would venture to say they number' only
a few thousand.' I am equally sure that
the oleo plants where these people work
are limited to comparatively few com-
munities, perhaps 50 in all.
It is not possible for the small number
of oleomargarine plants to influence very
greatly the business communities in
which they are located, any more than it
is possible for the few thousand workers
employed by those plants to contribute
much to the buying power of the cities
in which they live. The manufacture of
oleomargarine, like the production of
any other synthetic substitute, is highly
mechanized and does not require much
skill or supervision. A few workers turn
a few valves, and a complicated assembly
of tanks and pumps and mixers does the
rest.
As would be expected, the unimpor-
tance of the human factor in this proc-
ess is reflected in the percentage of re-
turn that goes to the farmers who supply
the raw materials. That portion of the
consumer's dollar that goes back to the
cotton planter or the soybean grower is
usually around 30 percent, and it is some-
times as low as 22 or even 21 percent.
By contrast, almost three-quarters of
the consumer's butter dollar goes back
to the farmer, who sometimes gets as
much as 80 percent of the retail selling
price.
Under the circumstances, it is not sur-
prising that millions of dairy farmers
support their dairy and farm organiza-
tion leaders in opposing the unregulated
sale of yellow oleomargarine. Millions
of small-town businessmen have equally

important interests at stake, since they
depend upon the farm trade for a large
part of their turn-over. The teamsters'
unions are active in defending butter
outlets because the dairy industry is the
largest user of motortrucks in the coun-
try. If people like these can be charac-
terized as a butter lobby, then certainly
we do have such a lobby and a very influ-
erqtial one.
Opposed to it, however, is the oleo-
margarine lobby, which certainly exem-
plifies the type of selfish big busi-
ness determined to have its own way
through the expenditure of unlimited
funds. In my opinion, the oleomarga-
rine manufacturers have mistaken power
for influence. In a recent article on
public  relations, Fortune    magazine
pointed out that it is possible to have
power without having influence, just as
it is possible to exert influence without
having power. It is a mistake for the
oleomargarine interests to believe that
the mere expenditure of millions of dol-
lars will assure the results they want
from Congress, just as it was a mistake
for them to believe that our legislators
would swallow without protest the ab-
surd assertions which they have made
throughout the course of their propa-
ganda campaign.
Mr. President, we have seen that Fed-
eral oleo regulation is not restraint on
free enterprise, as the oleomargarine
manufacturers contend. We have dis-
posed of their claim that oleomargarine
will not harm the dairy farmer. We
have seen that it is not possible for some
of our largest dairy States to sell fluid
milk, as the oleo lobbyists so glibly ad-
vise them to do. We have established
very, clearly that oleo spokesmen are
wrong in stating that there is little dan-
ger of fraud in the manufacture and sale
of yellow oleomargarine. We know that
yellow oleomargarine will not be cheaper
if Federal regulation is removed, because
the oleo interests have demonstrated
very clearly their continued intention to
charge all that the market will bear for
their imitation butter, if and when they
are allowed to market it without restric-
tion. We have reassured ourselves that
housewives do not demand yellow oleo-
margarine, as its manufacturers claim;
that the so-called demand for yellow oleo
is a fabrication.
We have examined and discarded oleo
arguments to the effect that, because a
small percentage of butter is artificially
colored, all oleomargarine should also
have the right to the use of the color
yellow. That contention, needless to say,
is no better founded than the equally
absurd claim that oleomargarine Is a
friend of the American farmer.
No one seeks to deprive the American
housewife of oleomargarine; she ought
to be able to buy all the oleomargarine
she wants in its most economical, un-
colored form, without the payment of
any tax whatsoever. This Is the stand
taken by dairy and farm leaders, when
the leading agricultural organizations
voted for repeal of all Federal taxes on
oleomargarine, provided some other way
of restraining fraud and deception could
be found.
The Gillette-Wiley substitute amend-
ment undertakes to provide against fraud

and deception on the basis of States'
rights. In this it follows the precedent
set by the Filled Milk Act of 1923, a
measure designed to stop the widespread
sale of a mixture of vegetable oils and
skim milk as genuine evaporated milk.
The Filled Milk Act of 1923 has been
reasonably successful in restraining un-
principled manufacturers from imitating
a genuine dairy product, and selling it
to unwary consumers as such. This it
does merely by prohibiting the movement
of this questionable product in interstate
commerce.
States which believe that it is all right
for their low-income groups to purchase
and use imitation dairy products are
perfectly free to allow its manufacture
and sale within their own borders.
States which do not believe that unprin-
cipled promoters should be allowed to
mislead the public along such lines are
at equal liberty to ban its distribution
without being overwhelmed by imports
from neighboring States. The Fluid
Milk Act was passed almost unanimously
by the Congress, and has twice been up-
held by the United States Supreme
Court.
Mr. President, I believe that we might
well follow the pattern established by
that piece of legislation in supporting
the Gillette-Wiley substitute amend-
ment, which undertakes to protect con-
sumers and dairy farmers alike by ban-
ning interstate commerce in yellow oleo-
margarine. No hardship would result
to oleomargarine manufacturers. No
consumers who now buy- and use uncol-
ored oleomargarine would be deprived of
the product. No State which now per-
mits the manufacture and sale of yel-
low oleomargarine would be asked to re-
strain its distribution in any way. But-
and this is a very large but-the great
dairy States upon which we depend for
so much of our milk and meat and other
dairy  products, would    be  protected
against unfair competition from yellow
oleomargarine with its consequent threat
to their vital butter outlets: As a co-
sponsor of the Gi'lette-Wiley substitute
amendment, I urge the Senate to pro-
vide this minimum of protection as the
only practical solution to the long butter-
oleo controversy.
RECESS
Mr. FULBRIGHT. I move that the
Senate take a recess until 12 o'clock
noon tomorrow.
The motion was agreed to; and (at
5 o'clock and 6 minutes p. in.) the Sen-
ate took a recess until tomorrow, Fri-
day, January 13, 1950, at 12 o'clock me-
ridian.
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by the
Senate January 12 (legislative day of
January 4), 1950:
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
James Michael McInerney, of New York,
to be an Assistant Attorney General, to fill an
existing vacancy.
COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS
John A. Marzall, of Illinois, now holding
recess appointment, to the position of Com-
missioner of Patents.

1950



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0356.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

JANUARY 12

IN THE MARINE COaPS
Maj. Gen. William P. T. Hill, United States
Marine Corps, to be Quartermaster General
of the Marine Corps, with the rank of major
general, for a period of 2 years from Feb-
ruary 1, 1950.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 1950
The House met at 12 o'clock noon.
Rev. D. H. Daniels, pastor, First Bap-
tist Church, Hendersonville, N. C., of-
fered the following prayer:
Our Heavenly Father, the Mighty
Ruler of the universe, who dost from the
throne behold all the dwellers on earth,
we beseech Thee with Thy favors to be-
hold and bless all those who make or in-
terpret or execute our laws and so re-
plenish them with graces of Thy Holy
Spirit that they may always incline to
Thy will and walk in Thy way; endow
them plenteously with heavenly gifts.
As the nations of the world have their
eyes focused and fixed on this Congress,
give to all the Members of this body a
defined and positive sense of their re-
sponsibility and wisdom to know the
.right and strength to do it. We pray
that our laws may be so justly and so
wisely administered that our Govern-
ment shall be a living example to all
lands, continue to hold these United
States of America to a position of honor
and trust among the nations.
We pray in the n me of Him who said,
"Go ye into all the world and preach the
gospel to every creature." Amen.
The Journal of the proceedings of
.Monday, January 9, 1950, was read and
approved.
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was communi-
cated to the House by Mr. Miller, one
of his secretaries.
SPECIAL ORDERS GRANTED
Mr. GOSSETT. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that on Monday
next, at the conclusion of the legislative
program of the day and following any
special orders heretofore entered, I may
be permitted to address the House for
10 minutes, and that, following my ad-
dress, the gentleman from New York
[Mr. REED] be permitted to address the
House for 20 minutes.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from
Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. MULTER asked and was given
permission to address the House on
Wednesday next for 10 minutes follow-
ing any special orders heretofore entered.
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
Mr. GOSSETT asked and was given
permission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD in two instances and include
extraneous matter.
Mr. HEBERT asked and was given
permission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD and include an article by Wil-
•liam H. Fitzpatrick, editor, New Orleans
States.

Mr. WIER asked and was given per-
mission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD and include a news item ap-
pearing in the Minneapolis Star-Journal.
Mr. LARCADE asked and was given
permission to extend his remarks in the
-RECORD in two instances and include
newspaper articles.
Mr. PATMAN asked and was given
permission to extend his remarks in the
RECGPD in two instances and include
statements and excerpts.
Mr. LANHAM asked and was given
permission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD and include an editorial appear-
ing in the Atlanta Journal.
Mr. MULTER asked and was given
permission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD in five instances and include
extraneous matter.
Mr. MANSFIELD asked and was given
permission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD in three instances and in two to
include newspaper articles.
Mr. EBERHARTER asked and was
given permission to extend his remarks
in the RECORD and include an edito-
rial appearing in the Pittsburgh Sun-
Telegraph entitled "Why Congressmen
Travel."
Mr. FORAND asked and was given
permission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD and include a bill he introduced
on the extension of the unemployment-
compensation program and an explana-
tion of it.
Mr. TRIMBLE asked and was given
permission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD and include extraneous material.
Mr. BURDICK asked and was given
permission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD in two instances and include ex-
cerpts from newspaper articles.
Mr. SMITH of Wisconsin asked and
was given permission to extend his re-
marks in the RECORD in two instances and
include extraneous matter.
Mr. HORAN asked and was given per-
mission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD and include letters.
Mr. RICH asked and was given per-
mission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD in two instances and include edi-
torials.
Mr. LECOMPTE asked and was given
permission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD and include a set of resolutions
of the Wapello County Farm Bureau.
Mr. NICHOLSON asked and was given
permission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD and include a letter sent to him.
Mr. BROWN of Ohio asked and was
given permission to extend his remarks
in the RECORD and include an address by
Herbert Hoover before the National Re-
organization Conference of the Citizens
Committee on the Hoover Report and
over the National Broadcasting System
on December 12 on the subject of re-
moving obstacles to economy and to com-
petence in government.
Mr. JAVITS asked and was given per-
mission to extend his remarks in the
RECORD and include extraneous material.
SPECIAL ORDER VACATED
Mr. SMITH of Wisconsin asked and
was given permission to vacate the spe-
cial order he had for today.

SPECIAL ORDERS GRANTED
Mr. JAVITS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the special order
granted my colleague the gentleman-
from Connecticut [Mr. LODGE] for today
may be put over until next Wednesday,
or, if the House is not in session at that
time, the immediately succeeding legisla-
tive day; and I further ask unanimous
consent that on Tuesday next, at the con-
clusion of the legislative program of the
day and following any special orders
heretofore entered, I may be permitted
to address the House for 10 minutes.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to
the request of the gentleman from New
York?
There was no objection.
COAL SHORTAGE
Mr. ALLEN of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend my remarks.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to
the request of the gentleman from Illi-
nois?
There was no objection.
Mr. ALLEN of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
although a national emergency exists biy
reason of the critical shortage of coal in
this country, the President of the United
States has thus far refused to act, al-
though thoroughly informed-as to the
critical situation. - He has thus far failed
to perform his paramount duty to pro-
tect the health, the welfare, and the
economy of the people, even though in
no uncertain terms the Congress of the
United States has given him the power
so to do. Homes, hospitals, churches,
schools, and factories are being closed.
It seems to me, Mr. Speaker, that the
situation is so serious that the leaders
of both political parties of the United
States Senate and House of Representa-
tives should call a joint meeting to devise
ways and means making so clear to the
President his duty as viewed by the Con-
gress that at last he may be moved to
act in relief of an emergency of which
all the people are cognizant and which
all suffer.
DR. TRUMAN'S DIAGNOSIS AND
PRESCRIPTION
Mr. MASON. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
my remarks.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to
the request of the gentleman from Illi-
nois?
There was no objection.
Mr. MASON. Mr. Speaker, Dr. Tru-
man says our people are in bad health
and need more medical attention, so he
prescribes socialized medicine.
Dr. Truman says many of our people
live in crowded shacks, so he prescribes
public housing as a remedy.
Dr. Truman says our farmers do not
know how to operate their farms, so he
urges the Brannan plan to socialize and
control the American farmer.
Dr. Truman says when our workers
are out of work they do not get enough
unemployment compensation, so he pre-
scribes larger and more generous un-
employment payments.

356



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0357.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

Dr. Truman says there Is widespread
ignorance in the country, so he pre-
scribes Federal aid for education.
Dr. Truman says the States are un-
able and unwilling to secure civil liber-
ties for their people, so he demands Fed-
eral laws to provide civil rights for all
the people.
Mr. Speaker, what we really need is
a. new doctor who will prescribe less
Government spending and lower taxes so
that the people will have more of their
money left in their own pockets to make
their own welfare expenditures.
COAL SHORTAGE
Mr. CHURCH. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
my remarks.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to
the request of the gentleman from Illi-
nois?
There was no objection.
Mr. CHURCH. Mr. Speaker, last
Monday a group of us,.possibly 40 or 50
Senators and Members of this House,
met with a group of retail coal dealers
in the United States. We discussed the
existing coal shortage, which is becom-
ing increasingly acute and which is caus-
ing great hardship and suffering for
thousands of innocent people.
At that meeting, and in the many
- letters we have been receiving from
-home, we have had presented to us per-
suasive and compelling evidence that
-the current strike in the coal industry
imperils the national health and safety.
.Those -present at the meeting agreed
that the President should be formally
advised of this fact and that he should
be formally urged to invoke the na-
tional-emergency provisions of the La-
bor-Management Relations Act.
To this end a committee, composed
of Senator FERGUSON, of Michigan, the
gentleman from Michigan, Congressman
WOLCOTT, and myself, were designated to
prepare an appropriate resolution. Such
a resolution was prepared and was intro-
duced in the Senate yesterday by the
distinguished   junior  Senator    from
Michigan, joined with several other
distinguished Senators.
I have today introduced an identical
resolution in the House. Yesterday I
sent each of you a mimeographed copy
of it, together with an explanatory let-
ter. I did not confine my communica-
tion to any particular section of the
country or to the members of any one
party. I sent it to all of you. While
the acute coal shortage more severely
affects some congressional districts than
others, this grave national crisis is no
less the concern of all of us. And, as I
-stated in my letter to each of you on
both sides of the aisle, I hope that many
of you will introduce a like resolution as
.an expression for the people of your
district that you believe the President
should exercise the powers vested in
him by existing law to prevent a contin-
uation of the current strike.
It may be that the President does
not like the law we are asking him to
.Invoke. But let me remind you that
he has used the national-emergency pro-
visions of it on nine previous occasions.
It may be that some of you may not like

the law. But let me remind you that
on three separate occasions we voted for
It with bipartisan support.
The coal-shortage situation confront-
ing us today is.as grave and as critical
as the other instances in which the Pres-
ident invoked the law. In three of the
nine instances in which the President
used the power given him by the law, it
was not even necessary to obtain a court
injunction to settle the dispute. In one
of the instances-that of the long-lines-
telephone strike-it was not even neces-
sary for the board of inquiry, set up by
the President in accordance with the
provisions of the law, to file a report. In
the interim the strike was settled.
But in the case of the current coal
controversy the President has not even
so much as set up a board of inquiry,
by which at the very least the facts in
the dispute, including each party's posi-
tion, can be ascertained. For reasons
of his own, the President has ignored
the existing situation, and we who rep-
resent the people owe it to the people we
represent to indicate to the President
the hardship and suffering our people
are having to endure and to urge him
to act.
That is the purpose of my resolution
and the one introduced yesterday in the
Senate by several Senators. I hope I
may have the full support of all of you,
on both sides of the aisle, in securing
favorable action on this resolution. You
can assist by introducing a like resolu-
tion and by urging the Committee on
Education and Labor to report it imme-
diately.
DEFENSE FACILITIES IN THE PACIFIC
NORTHWEST      •
Mr. TOLLEFSON. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend my remarks.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to
the request of the gentleman from Wash-
ington?
There was no objection.
Mr. TOLLEFSON. Mr. Speaker, a few
months ago the people of the Pacific
Northwest were shocked beyond words
by the announcement of the military
that that area generally, and Puget
Sound specifically, were vulnerable to
enemy attack. The announcement pro-
posed that thereafter a major portion
of the aircraft construction would be
transferred from the Boeing S)attle
plant to the Wichita, Kans., plant.
The effect of such proposal was tan-
tamount to the military's saying, "The
