Mr. WAINWRIGHT. Mr. Speaker and gentlemen of the
House, realizing that the Philippine question Is certain to
consume much of the attention of this Congress, it has been
my intention some time during the session to address the
House on the subject. The remarks of the Commissioner from
the Philippines induce me to say just a word at this time. I



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0449.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

want it understood my discussion of anything relating to the
Philippines is always animated by the greatest possible interest,
admiration, and friendliness for the Philippine people and their
representatives on this floor. The Commissioner from the Phil-
ippines [Mr. GuaVARA] referred to the fact that I asked a
question during the debate last month as to the binding effect
of any promise that had been given to the Filipinos; that is,
any promise that was binding upon the American people. Since
that time I have examined the question with some little care,
and must confess, although I hope I would be the last one to
be guilty of being a party to any breach of faith on the part
of my country, that I have come to the conclusion that there
is a very grave question as to whether there has ever been a
promise made to the Filipino people by anybody authorized to
make it or a promise made in any such way as would bind us and
compel us as a matter of faith to grant independence to the
Philippine Islands. The only statements or declarations in the
nature of a promise are those that have been made by Presi-
dents of the United States, starting with the memorable declara-
tion made by President McKinley when he gave his instructions
to the first Philippine Commission. Those instructions simply
called for such direction of affairs in the Philippine Islands as
to prepare the Filipino people for self-government, nothing
which could in any way be considered as a pledge or an obliga-
tion or any definite declaration or intention to grant them
complete independence.
It Is true that other statements of the same kind and going
much further have been made by other Presidents and by Gov-
ernors General reiterating the statements of the Presidents, but
my point is that nobody has ever had authority to commit the
American people to a course of conduct of this grave nature
short of some expression on the part of the people themselves.
These declarations to which I have referred culminated in
'the preamble to the Jones law, to which reference has been
made. I can not blame, nobody could blame or criticize the
Filipinos for feeling as they do on this subject, but, on the other
hand, those of us charged with a solemn duty in this regard
should consider and analyze this question and all the considera-
tions involved with the greatest care before we assume to act.
I maintain that the declaration in the preamble of the Jones
law that it had always been from the beginning the purpose
of the American people to grant the Filipinos their independence
is not in accordance with the facts, because the American people
had never had an opportunity to express themselves on this
subject, except once, namely, in the presidential election of 1900,
when the question of giving up the Philippines was the para-
mount issue before the people, and when by a most decisive
majority the American people decided that they wished to retain
the Philippine Islands, and that was followed up by waging a
war, in which 70,000 American troops were engaged and In
which a vast amount of tikeasure and blood were expended for
the purpose of holding them.
Mr. Speaker, another question which we must consider at this
session before we can vote on a resolution granting Independence
is the constitutional right of Congress to part with the Philip-
pines. I do not propose now to enter into any extended dis-
cussion of that grave constitutional question, and I could not do
it satisfactorily or adequately at this time.
Mr. CLARKE of New York. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. WAINWRIGHT. I can not yield In the short time at
my disposal.
The SPEAKER. The time of the gentleman from New York
has expired.
• Mr. WAINWRIGHT. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
that my time be extended for three minutes.
Mr. CLARKE of New York. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent that the gentleman's time may be extended for five
minutes in order that I may ask him a question.
Mr. KNUTSON. And reserving the right to object, I should
also like to ask the gentleman a question.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. CLARKE] that the time of the gen-
tleman from New York [Mr. WAINwaIuT] be extended five
minutes?
There was no objection.
Mr. WAINWRIGHT. Mr. Speaker, there is no authority, I
maintain, in the Constitution which gives Congress the right to
part with territory of the United States, once acquired either by
purchase or by treaty, and I believe that if the constitutional
lawyers in this body will examine this question with care they
will find that there is so grave a doubt as to the power of Con-
gress to pass any such resolution that it would be most repre-
hensible for us to do it, short of some declaration on the subject
by the Supreme Court of the United States.
LXXII-    97

The main question apart from the question of a promise or
apart from the power of Congress is whether the Filipinos are
yet ready to maintain a stable form of government, and I assert
that the best evidence that we have is to the effect that they
are not, and that practically the only evidence we have that
they are are the assertions of their representatives before com-
mittees and here on the floor of the House.
Declarations by recent Governors General and the findings
of the Wood-Forbes commission and the views more recently
expressed by the last Governor General, our present Secretary
of State, Mr. Stimson, are to the effect that the Filipinos not
only are not yet ready to maintain the kind of government that
we have In mind, and that now to grant them independence
would work such an injury to their best interests that it would
be a gross and ignoble'breach of the trust that the American
people assumed when they took over the Philippine Islands.
Mr. CLARKE of New York. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. WAINWRIGHT. Yes.
Mr. CLARKE of New York. Does the gentleman not think
that the objections which he is making are highly technical; that
all of the time since Dewey sailed into Manila on that May day
morn there has been an implied promise held out to the Fill-
pino people themselves that in God's good time when they had
arrived at a state when we believed they were fitted for their
own government, they would have that government handed to
them? Are not the gentleman's objections technical, and not
moral?
Mr. WAINWRIGHT. If the gentleman from New York had
listened to me, he would have seen that it is exactly the other
side of that proposition that I maintain.
Mr. KNUTSON. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. WAINWRIGHT. Yes.
Mr. KNUTSON. What did we do with reference to Cuba?
Did we not give the Cubans their independence?
Mr.. WAINWRIGHT. We had not acquired title to Cuba,
I will say to the gentleman. My proposition is simply this,
that we have no more authority to part with the Philippine
Islands to-day, to give them their Independence, than we have
to sell Alaska or any other Territory.
The SPEAKER. The time of the gentleman from New York
has again expired.
Mr. KNUTSON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
the gentleman be given two additional minutes.
The SPEAKER. The Chair thinks he should not further
recognize the gentlemen to ask unanimous consent for an ex-
tension of the time.
PRESIDENT'S AMESSAOE--LAW ENFORCEMENT (H. DOC. NO. 252)
The SPEAKER laid before the House the following message
from the President of the United States, which was read, and,
with the accompanying documents, was referred to the Com-
miiitees on Ways and Means, on the Judiciary, on Interstate and
Foreign Commerce, on Expenditures in the Executive Depart-
ments, on the District of Columbia, and on Immigration and
Naturalization:
To the Congress of the United States:
In my previous messages I have requested the attention of the
Congress to the urgent situation which has grown up in the
matter of enforcement of Federal criminal laws.
After exhaustive examination of the subject the Commission
on Law Observance and Enforcement and the officials of the
Department of Justice and tile Treasury Department unite in
the conclusion that increasing enactment of Federal criminal
laws over the past 20 years, as to which violation of the pro-
hibition laws comprises rather more than one-half of the total
arrests, has finally culminated in a burden upon the Federal
courts of a character for which they are ill designed, and in
many cases entirely beyond their capacity. The result is to
delay civil causes, and, of even more importance, the defeat of
both justice and law enforcement. Moreover, experience shows
division of authority, responsibility, and lack of fundamental
organization in Federal enforcement agencies, and ofttimes
results in ineffective action.
While some sections of the American people may disagree
upon the merits of some of the questions involved, every re-
sponsible citizen supports the fundamental principle that the
law of the land must be enforced.
The development of the facts shows the necessity for certain
important and evident administrative reforlns in the enforce-
ment and judicial machinery, concrete proposals for which are
available from Government departments. They are in the main:
1. Reorganization of the Federal court structure so as to give
relief from congestion.

1930

1535



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0450.txt

1536                            CONGRESSIONAL
2. Coucentration of responsibility in detection and prosecu-
tion of prohibition violations.
3. Consolidation of the various agencies engaged in prevention
of smuggling of liquor, narcotics, other merchandise, and aliens
over our frontiers.
4. Provision of adequate court and prosecuting officials.
5. Expansion of Federal prisons and reorganization of parole
and other practices.
6. Specific legislation for the District of Columbia.
I append hereto a preliminary and a supplementary report
from the Commission on Law Observance and Enforcement
relating to several of these and other questions. I particularly
call attention to their recommended plan for reducing conges-
tion in the Federal courts by giving court commissioners en-
larged powers in minor criminal cases. Their discussion of the
workability and the constitutionality of the plan, which is con-
curred in by the eminent jurists upon the commission and others
whose advice they have sought, is set out in more detail in the
supplementary report. I also append memorandums from the
Attorney General and the Secretary of the Treasury. upon
several phases of these problems.
I believe the administrative changes mentioned above will
contribute to cure many abuses. Beyond these immediate ques-
tions are others which reach deeply into the whole question of the
growth of crime and the enforcement of the laws. The causes
of crime, the character of criminal laws, the benefits and lia-
bilities that flow from them, the abuses which arise under them,
the method by which enforcement and judicial personnel is
secured, the judicial procedure, the- respective responsibility. of
the Federal and State Governments to these problems, all re-
quire further most exhaustive consideration and investigation,
which will require time and earnest research as to the facts and
forces in action before sound opinions can be arrived at upon
them.

HERBERT HoovER.
THE WHITE HOUSE, Jamary 13, 1930.
PRESII)ENT'S MESSAG O--1NTEIBNATIONAL FUl TRADE EXHIRITION
CONGRESS (H. DOC. NO. 253)
Tile SPEAKER also laid before the House the following
message from the President of the United States, which was
read and, with the accompanying documents, Was referred to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and] ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the Uvied States:
I commend to the favorable consideration of the Congress,
the inclosed report from the Secretary of State, to the end that
legislation may be enacted to authorize an appropriation of
not exceeding $30,000, for the expenses of participation by the
United States in the International Fur Trade Exhibition and
Congress to be held in Gernmany in 1930.
HERBERT HOOVER.
THsi WmI rm  HousE, Jaiiuary 13, 1930.
WHY MIEMBERS FROM AGRICULTURAL STATES VOTEl TO SEND HAW-
LEMY TARIFF BILL TO THE SENATE
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to extend
my remarks in the RmeORD on the Hawley bill, and to include a
letter on the subject by myself.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to the request of the
gentleman from Iowa?
There was no objection.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I extend my remarks on the Hawley
bill and its relation to tariff revision by reprinting in the
REcORD a letter written by me and printed in the Cedar Rapids
(Iowa) Gazette and Republican on January 3, as follows:
WASIIINGTON, D. C., January 2.-When Congress meets on Monday
the tariff bill will have right of way In the Senate. The Senators have
promised to dispose of this issue quickly. The people have an interest
in this. They want to go on with business as usual and they can not
do it with tariff rates hanging fire.
Some Senators believe they can pass the bill in two weeks now that
they have made up their minds to get down to business. But it will
hardly be done that quickly. Then the bill will go to conference. I
continue to believe that a good bill will be passed. On all sides we
are better minded than we were. The industrialists are more willing to
concede right of way to the agriculturists and after the recent stock
panic the agriculturists are willing to concede a1 little more in the way
of industrial duties.
With such good prospects less criticism is heard of the House bill
and of the House procedure. In fact, the course which the House
followed it is now conceded was the course of wisdom. If the House
had not voted to send its bill, unsatisfactory as it was to many, to
the Senate, there would not now be any prospects at all-that is, if
the House had defeated Its own bill, no tariff revision would have.
been pending now, or been possible, for the Senate can not originate

RECORD-HOUSE                                   JANUAY 13
such legislation. The Constitution places that authority and respon-
sibility In the House alone.
Many of those who have criticized have done so because they do not
understand the legislative procedure.. That procedure Is: First, the
House must draft a bill; second, the Senate must draft a bill, pre-
sumably based on the House bill; third, the two bills, which may be
entirely different, must be sent to a committee, composed of five or
even nine members from each House and it is in the conferences of
this committee that all tariff bills are finally shaped.  Under this
procedure the House bill was only a tentative bill and so understood.
In this case, If It had been the final bill, I and many others would not
have voted for it. What I voted for was to send the bill on its way
through the Senate to final1 conferences.
In considering such legislation there is another Important fact to be
stated. In the House the so-called industrial States outvote the so-
called agricultural States more than two to one. For instance, New
York, an industrial State, has 43 votes in the House, and Iowa, mainly
an agricultural State, has only 11 votes. It follows that the indus-
trial States can outvote us in the House and they did outvote us lest
spring. But in the Senate it is different. There Now York and Iowa
have the same voting strength--that is,'2 votes each. We therefore
had a right to look to the Senare to correct some rates we could not
get right In the House.
Under such conditions in drafting our bill time House sought to get
the most It could for agriculture, and to get the rates we wanted we
had to concede some Industrial rates that we did not want. We did this
because we relied on the Senate for further adjustments.     In this
strategy we were so successful that the Senate will have to make very
few changes of a major kind. In our House agricultural rates. So far
the Senators have made. only one major agricultural change, increasing
the duty on casein, a dairy by-product, from 21/ to 5 cents, the rate
.we tried to get in the House..
• How hard the fight made in the House for adequate agricultural
rates was I may show by citing blackstrap, a refuse molasses of the
sugar-cane mills, of which we are importing more than 300,000,000 gal-
lons annually. This imported stuff displaces around 40,000,000 bushels
of corn in the manufacture of industrial alcohol. The parliamentary
situation was such that we were able to carry the fight for a duty on
blakstrap to the floor. I had spoken so often on this subject, having
specialized on It, that I deferred to my colleagues, Mr. RAMSEYER and
Mr. DIcKINsoN, to make the fight on the floor. If two men ever put
up a fight, they did. It was so successful we won our victory on one
ballot but lost it on another, both by slender majorities.
I can not pass on without paying a special tribute to Mr. RAMSEYEa.
He was the Iowa member of the Committee on Ways and Means, which
has tariff legislation in charge. He was almost the lone member for
agriculture on that powerful committee. The burden of the fight fell
on him. He did not fail in his efforts, even If he did not always get
what he wanted. No one who was not here will ever know how much
our agricultural schedules in this tariff revision will owe to him. He is
worthy of all honor.
When the bill was reported out of committee with some agricultural
schedules unsatisfactory and mniny more industrial schedules much
more unsatisfactory-that Is, too high-the question arose what we
should do with the bill, whether we should kill it on the floor, which I
do not think we could have done against the industrial strength of
the East, or whether we should pass it on to the Senate for further
amendment.
Mr. tAmsEYER himself coined the phrase that constituted the best
answer to that question. Better to send the bill to the Senate hospital
than to send it to the legislative morgue. To send it to the Senate
meant two more chances to perfect the bill: First, In the Senate Itself;
and, second, in the final conference between the two Houses. But if
we sent it to the morgue-that is, killed it-that would be the end of
t'ariff legislation, and one of the two big purposes of President Hoover
in calling the extra session would have been irretrievably defeated.
Under such conditions wisely we followed the only wise course; that
is, we sent the bill to the Senat~e. We did this by an overwhelming
majority. Of the 256 Republicans voting, 244 voted to send the bill to
the Senate and only 12 voted no. But 244 against 12 was an impressive
Republican victory.                   /
But if we lost a paltry 12 out of 25( Republicans, we gained more
from the Democrats, 20 of whom voted with us. Among our Demo-
cratic recruits were RUTH BaYAxN OwEN, of Florida, and CLAUDE IUDS-
PETH, of Texas. I mention them because Mrs. OWEN was the first Bryan
who ever voted for a protective tariff. She cast her vote that way be-
cause she believed the bill was a step in advance for agriculture. Mr.
IUDsreTrI's vote was even more significant, because he himself is a cattle
man and farmer. He went so far as to speak for the bill, declaring
that more had been written for agriculture into this House bill than had
ever before been written into any one tariff bill or Into all of them put
together.
What we did for agriculture in the House needs neither defense nor
justification. We made it possible to get what I believe now we are
going to get ; that is, a tariff bill that will come very near placing agri-
culture on a parity with industry.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0451.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

In closing I want to speak of the industrial rates. Agriculture must
not be industrially blind. There is an interd ependence between them.
Both must prosper if either would prosper and neither will prosper long
unless they both prosper. It is easy to sneer at the ro-called industrial
East, but it is on that industrial East that the agricultural West is
most dependent. The factory workers are the consumers of farm prod-
acts. There must be work and wages in the factories and in all so-
called Industries or there will be no market for agricultural products.
At the present time there is a slight depression In the industrial East.
Too many men have gambled in stocks, as 12 years ago too many men
gambled In land. In October we had a deflation and a depression. We
are feeling the. effects of this even in Iowa. Butter prices have gone
down. They have gone down because the men In the Industrial East
can not pay high prices for this butter while slack in work. I fear
they are eating more oleomargarine. It does not take much of a depres-
sion. Last week the editor of Wallace's Farmer and Iowa Homestead
told his readers that "a slight decrease in consumption would put dairy
products on the International market." We must keep butter and other
farm products on the American market, and one way of doing that is to
keep labor employed at good wages.
There are two things to be kept in mind in making tariff laws. I
will quote them as they were stated by my colleague, Mr. RAMSBYER:
" First. Increase the pay roll of industry and you Increase the farmer's
market for his products.
" Second. Increase the income of agriculture and you increase the
volume of industrial sales."
That is the delicate balance that we must strive for in tariff legisla-
tion. We can not attain it by hurling epithets at each other, nor by
mere political clamor, whether for partisan or personal purposes. We
can attain it only by thinking economically as Mr. Hoover Is trying
to do.
And I believe it Is Mr. Hoover's tariff program that will he enacted
after all our wrangling. A tariff revision in which agriculture will be
stressed, but which will not neglect to care for such Industries as are
now hampered by foreign competition, due to cheaper labor in Europe
and Asia. We must strive to keep all we can of the American markets,
which are the best markets in the world for both the American farmers
and the American industrial laborers.
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE HOUSE
Mr. OSIAS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to pro-
ceed for 10 minutes to reply to the gentleman from New York
[Mr. WAINWRIGHT], and to speak from the Philippine viewpoint
with respect to the appropriation bill affecting the War De-
partment, which is charged with the erection of military posts
and other buildings in the Philippine Islands.
Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. Reserving the right to object,
Mr. Speaker, the gentleman already has permission to extend his
remarks and inasmuch as that has been arranged for, I think
we should not further delay the business that has been arranged
by the House. I shall object for the present.
Mr. OSIAS. I think the gentleman has confused the two
Resident Commissioners.
Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. The gentleman can get time
in his own right at a later date.
Mr. CRAMTON. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the right to object.
The SPEAKER. Objection is heard. The gentleman from
Washington is recognized for 15 minutes.
IMMIGRATION
Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I would like to
thank the House for the permission granted me to make a
short speech in order to outline very briefly a bill introduced
by me to-day for the regulation of Immigration into the United
States from countries on this hemisphere.
I am proud that I was present here to hear the President's
message read concerning the plans for law       enforcement, and
that I was privileged to follow the reading of that message. I
noticed that the President's message favors a consolidation of
the various inspection services at our border. I also noticed
that the Speaker referred the portions of the message relating
to each phase of the various controls at the border to the par-
ticular committee that would have jurisdiction. This means
that the immigration border-patrol discussion will be referred
to. the Committee on Immigration and Naturalization, of which
I have the honor to be chairman.
On the border many of our laws have to be enforced.
Laws relating to plant and animal quarantines, narcotics,
liquor, imports, customs, immigration, and other protective laws
have to be enforced. The entire public wants all of these laws
enforced. Our Immigration Committee set up the immigration-
border patrol and secured the first $1,200,000 by which it was
established. There was no civil service of suitable employees
available, so the turnover in men was heavy for the first two
years, and then we began to enroll a fine lot of men of the type
tMat works without regard to hours; men who ride their own

horses, cook their own camp meals, and guard fully the sneak-in
places. These men travel frequently with customs or prohibi-
tion enforcement men, and our immigration men seize lots of
automobiles and turn in many liquor-law violators to the author-
ities of the other services.
Gentlemen, I believe it will be well for these various border
guardians to always travel in pairs or in threes. It will really
be economy and will make for the safety of the men and the
public.
Our Immigration Committee has made an extended study of
the subject, and much testimony is in our'files. We have tried
hard to have our border patrol enlarged.
I used to believe that a unified border patrol was the only
thing. Then I visited various ports of entry on both borders,
and I came to the conclusion that the United States could never-
for the salaries it pays-secure men competent to lead the hard
life of the border and at the same time acquire a good working
knowledge of the highly involved immigrations, customs, pro-
hibition, and other laws, and the regulations of the departments
with relation thereto.
That would be more than we should ask of the men that we
can secure for the money paid. But all that will be determined
by the various committees having charge of the various parts of
the procedure.
The enforcement of law is a nonpartisan matter, and I have
no doubt that the various chairmen and the ranking majority
and minority members of each committee which the Speaker
named will soon find a method for coordination. Our immi-
gration committee will have published certain hearings not here-
tofore printed, so that all 'nay read the testimony given by
witnesses brought by us from distant border places. [Applause.]
But, Mr. Speaker, I arose to discuss and explain a bill which
I have this day introduced, a bill to apply a numerical limitation
to immigration from all countries of the Western Hemisphere.
This measure would apply a new quota system, permitting
an influx into the United States equal to three times the annual
immigration of American citizens to Western Hemisphere coun-
tries. It would also authorize the establishment of a plan of
immigrant selection by the Secretary of Labor to "develop a
homogeneous population in the United States." [Applause.]
If the administration and the Congress are earnestly trying
to improve industrial, crime, and other conditions in this coun-
try, there is nothing that can be done that will be more im-
portant to that end than limitation of Western Hemisphere
immigration. We have cut off most of the immigrant stream
from Europe and Asia, to our great benefit; but one result has
been an extraordinary intake across our northern and southern
boundaries.
Depression of wage scales by Immigrant job seekers in New
England and the Southwest is a notorious fact. That depres-
sion is evident in Los Angeles, Calif., where paupers fill the
asylums, while able-bodied workingmen walk the streets for
work. The jobs have been taken by newcomers who will work
cheaper.
It has spread even to the city of New York. The city of
Harlem, N. Y., too, has become a veritable Babel, and a seething
Sodom, populated with peoples from the islands of the West
Indies, South America, and elsewhere. A dangerous festering
sore breeds there. The mixture does not make for good civili-
zation.
My colleagues, jobs are hard to get in Chicago. American
citizen workers-barbers, painters, waiters, carpenters, and so
on-are being crowded out by the mixed breeds. The con-
gestion of nonassimilable aliens, notwithstanding all adminis-
trative hindrances properly set up under existing laws, is the
greatest menace to American workers there. We must stop this,
not only for our present people of all races, but for posterity.
The population, if it is to carry on a free Government, must
grade tip, not down. [Applause.]
I am presenting a bill which embodies what I believe to be
the first really sound, understandable, workable plan under
which the quota system can be applied uniformly, fairly, and
justly to all nationalities of North, Central, and South Amer!-
can countries. Its simplicity will be apparent to all. I propose
that for every American citizen who goes to reside permanently
In another Western Hemisphere land we shall admit three immi-
grants from that land. This will reduce immigration from
North, Central, and South America by approximately two-thirds,
permitting a total of a little more than 50,000 annually instead
of the 150,000 or more that we have been receiving.
I believe that the nations on the north and south of us will be
gratified if this bill can be passed.
Some of the higher officials of those adjacent countries with
whom we desire to have the best of relations have said to me
personally that they want the pouring out of their people into
this country stopped, so far as that is possible.

1930

1537



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0452.txt

1538

In addition, my bill will respond to the plea repeatedly made
by Secretary of Labor Davis for a selective system *of -immi-
gration by authorizing .a preference, after all existing prefer-
ences have been accorded, to persons of all nationalities who
may be found to be specially assimilable into the population of
the United States.
Mr. GREEN. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. I am sorry I can not yield.
I have so little time.
The President in his message to this Congress asked for some
better form of selection..                             .
This bill may be the beginning of a form of selection for the
limited immigration now coming from Europe. This is the bill
that so many Congressmen have *asked for. It is what 80 per
cent of you demand. Most of you pledged your constituents
that you would work for such a law. Let us pass it soon. [Ap-
plause.] I expect to press it in committee, and the committee
will perfect my bill, improve it, and hasten it to -the calendar.
The committee was organized just before the holiday recess.
I regret it was not organized early in the extra session, because
there is so much work to do. As a matter of fact, my col-
leagues, this committee should be an7 exclusive committee. It is
a mistake to have hard-working members who sit on this com-
mittee also serve as chairmen and ranking members of other
committees.
Our committee has the record In recent years of having the
largest number of deaths of members of it and of members
who have become sick and whose health has been broken. I
think it has the largest number of- members who have been
transferred to or promoted to so-called ranking committees.
All the key subjects of the Nation's greatest problems--educa-
tioni, standards of living, eugenics, Sunday observance, drama,
press and its freedom, free speech, riots, strikes, crimes, gang
government, revolution, lessons in communism, wages of work-
ingmen and of seamen, deportations, health, population, birth
rates, protection of our borders, strikes pulled off to be lessons
in communism, anarchy, the black hands, cotton growing, Fas-
cisti, farm labor, sugar beets, crop production, the people of our
insular possessions-all these and more are subjects that must be
considered in our hearings.
In this Congress there are seven new members on this com-
mittee who must start in on this technical legislation. There
are six on the committee who have been members of the
committee In the previous Congress only, out of a total of 21.
All work bard, or soon learn to. work. hard. They quit hearings
in their other important committees to sit for hours in this
immigration work; the large room with but one small window
reeks with smoky, foul, putrid air. Oh, hasten the day when the
new House Office Building is completed.
Everyone knows that immigration legislation involves many
technical questions and it is a difficult task to attempt to co-
ordinate the various acts that have had to be passed piecemeal
since the World War. I know of 20 corrections that should be
.made by acts of Congress to make administration truly pos-
sible. But there will not be time for all that. Besides, the
work is almost beyond the time that the committeemen can
give to it. [Applause.] .
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. MICHEzN). The time of
the gentleman from Washington has expired.
Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent to proceed for five minutes more.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Washing-
ton asks unanimous consent to proceed for five additional
minutes. Is there objection?
There was no objection.
Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. In this book, dated four or
five years ago--I have not had time to look it up, but I will put
it in the Rucoim--there are committee hearings telling the whole
story of the setting up of the Black Shirts or the Fascisti. it
is all here in detail. A thousand copies of the hearings were
printed and they were licked up out of the committee room in
10 days.
- Now, Mr. Speaker, I do not want to say anything that might
be taken as offensive by any nation in the world or by the
people of any nation, or the descendants here of those people.
There is discussion going on editorially in some of the papers
as to whether the pressure which brings the call for more and
more restriction of immigration is on racial grounds or on eco-
nomic grounds. As far as I have been concerned, neither race
nor religion has ever been in my mind in the matter. A black
bushman, born in the very center of Africa, is a man as much
as I am, but he is a thousand years behind in his opportunity
for education and opportunity. So there is no feeling in it.
However, as a student of population and of heredity and of
eugenics. I know that if a man with a civilization"stafidard,
say, of 10 marries a 'wman who has adVanced on civilization's

JANUARY 13

path to the point of only 4, you will not reach the standard of
10 again in the posterity of that family for 300 years, making
allowances for all of the geniuses, inventors, and scientists
who may be born sporadically. This is proved in the history
of ancient nations, and even quite modern ones.
It is proved in studies of families over many generations.
This bill, and others relating to the particular subject, will be
laid before the committee at its meeting Tuesday. The com-
mittee has not yet worked on it, although the preparation of
what seems so simple has taken much time of myself and numner-
ous associations during the summer season. We will have brief
hearings. At these it will be shown that only last Wednesday,
so I am reliably told, 1,000 Mexican laborers took the places of
others in one -of the great steel mills of Pennsylvania. This,
too, in a city which has had unpleasant and unsatisfactory ex-
periences with laborers of that type.' It will be shown, I think
that one of the things that has so distressed New England re-
cently is the constant influx of considerable numbers of the long-
established French-Canadian -type from eastern Canada and the
Maritime Provinces Into New England. Those men continue to
arrive, in New England factory cities, where the mills are
already overmanned.-.
I am told that some 80,000 or 90.000 immigrant workers,
skilled and unskilled, have domiciled themselves in the New
England States since the passage of the 1924 act, that the
mills there at no time have been able to employ them. So even
the 90,000, a limited number, that stopped in New England
after reaching the United Sta.tes added several burdens-non-
employment, crime; increased taxes for charities and schools,
besides driving the older established laborers on to newer fields,
where their arrival upsets labor conditions, cuts wages, creates
strikes, lockouts, riots, and even murder.
Mr. Speaker, recently some 400 great captains of industry
were called to this city by the President for a conference. It
was agreed unanimously that they should drive industry, erect
buildings, and enlarge plants. Why? To keep up the employ-
ment of the country-work and pay for 600,000 or 800,000.
But what good will that do if the influx from either side. of
our country, or from any South American or West Indian coun-
try, or any European country, drives people away from their
jobs? So that is why this bill will pass. [Applause.]
As I say, there is no feeling in the matter. Any country in
the world would do the same. Self-preservation is a law among
nations as it is among men.
If you could get an approximation of the actual unemploy-
ment of the United States to-day, you would be astonished. One
reason is through the increase of our births over deaths. High
speed, high pressure, high st andards of living, higher costs
of living. All these things drive more and more young men
and women into industry; into labor. The young women ave
putting on overalls and working in the factories. Every time
that is done some older man, perhaps as young as 40 but the
father of a family, has his job placed in jeopardy. le is being
hurried to the human junk heap.
Oh, -it is pitiful. Our foreign-born naturalized citizens--
except the radicals and the communists and the international-
ists-want restriction and would yell for it were it not for the
fact that they want to bring their relatives from the overpopu-
lated caldrons of hunger, hate, and strife from which they
escape. They know exactly what overpopulation will do to
living standards and wages. They have seen it. They do not
want it here. Modern cities do not want cheap labor. Mere
population does not make prosperity. If so, China would be
the richest nation in the world; India would be wealthy and
happy; and our own Porto Rico would be the richest place
tinder the American flag.
Look ahead!
Births over deaths in this country are considerably more than
1,000,000 a year, which means that employment must be found
each year for nearly that number of boys and girls as they be-
come 18 to 21 years of age. Trhe great automobile Industry in
the last 20 years has given all kinds of employment to young and
old-from work in the mines, the forests, the -factory, the sales-
rooms clear down to the thousands of roadside tanks where
gas is sold. Where is the next industry to come on and take
care of your grandchildren, the young boys 19 and 20 years of
age? Where is it, in this age of labor-saving machines and of
merger grouping and consolidation? Our population is now
more than 122,000,000. Our births are so much greater than
the deaths, the struggle from hand to mouth is so great, it seems
to me that we are called upon'to close quickly the side doors
and thus complete the work which Congress approved in 1924.
[Applause.]
Mr. Speaker, these bills were nonpartisan. Both platforms
have called for them, and years from now wvhen history is
written the act which Will stand out most prominently along-

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0453.txt

1930                           CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-lOUSE                                                    1539
rside of the disarmament conference of the late President safety of the Republic and the benefit of posterity which will
Harding will be his Public Act No. 6, his signature to the tern- come after us even a hundred years from now. [Applause.]
-porary quota act, which slowed down immigration from more I thank you, gentlemen.
than a million a year to a few hundred thousand. God bless    The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman from
his memory for that. He told me that he would sign any      Washington has expired.
restrictive bill that I could get out of committee and through  Mr. SABATH. Mr. Speaker-
Congress and asked me to hurry. [Applause.]                   The SPEAKER pro tempore. For what purpose does the gen-
When as the years go by'and we contemplate the accom- tleman from Illinois rise?
plishments of former President Coolidge we will appraise as   Mr. SABATH. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
among his greatest works the signing of the 1924 restrictive  the gentleman from Washington may have his time extended for
immigration act, which, after 40 years of effort by Congress, five minutes for the purpose of enlightening the House wherein
closed the doors as tight as possible.                      his bill differs from the bills that the gentleman from Texas
Yes, it took 40 years for Congress to bring this about, for  [Mr. Box] and myself have introduced in the last and preced-
every President, except one-who postponed action-vetoed an  ing Congresses on the question of placing the Western Hemi-
act and every act that Congress passed, when the people began  sphere on a quota basis?
to see that immigration was getting out of bounds; when our   Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. I ask the gentleman to with-
distinguished and honored predecessors who sat in the seats  draw the request; I can not use the five minutes. I know we
where you sit, began to see that the United States-" the asylum  will have the support of the gentleman from  Illinois [Mr.
for the oppressed "-was. likely to be so swamped that it would  SABATH] in this great effort because he has stated on the floor
be all asylum, and nothing else.                            a number of times that these side doors need to be clos('d
And when this bill is perfected in our committee, passed by  in fairness to other nations from which we admit so few person.
House and Senate, and signed by President Hoover, it will be-  Mr. SABATH. I am in favor of it, but I want to know in
come a law that will complete and round out the whole immigra- what way these bills differ.
tion situation program and will be to the everlasting credit of  Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. All bills will be considered.
another President-Herbert Hoover.                           The old Box bill, the new bill just introduced by Judge Box, the
What a monument to these Presidents, to these Presidents Sabath bill. An amalgamation will follow. That is the usual
of our day and generation !                                 custom. We will take the best of all.
Is it not a monument to those who sat in these various Con-  I am very sorry the gentleman has been promoted from the
gresses and fought this hard fight, because the fight does get Committee on Immigration to the Rules Committee, because we
very bitter?                                                will not have his help to drive this thing through now.
Blood tells, and it takes two or three generations to bleed  Mr. SABATH. You will have it. I have been fighting for
away certain feelings. We admire any man who loves the it for years.
country wherein he was born, but we must insist that he shall  Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. I thank the gentleman.
be patriotic and love and revere this country-the United States  Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to extend my remarks.
of America. [Applause.]                                       The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. MICHENER). The *gentle-
We owe something to a former colleague of ours, who sat in  man from Washington asks unanimous consent to extend his
this Chamber years ago--HEIaN, of Alabama-who has just remarks. Is there objection?
accomplished something that your committee had tried to do.   There was no objection.
In extended hearings published in this volume we exposed the  Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. Under that permission I
American Fascisti; the oath of allegiance to Mussolini; the fact shall print paragraphs which explain in a nonlegal way the
the Sons of Italy in America in annual convention were only  various paragraphs of the bill, as follows:
saved from giving a majority vote of allegiance to the dictator  Section 1 of this bill needs no further explanation other than
-by the efforts of the order's president, Mr. Cottilli, now a New  to say that this act shall be known as the immigration act of
York State supreme judge. The 1,000 copies printed were 1930.
snapped up by the members and the public. The testimony       Section 2 repeals subsection (c) of section 4 of the immigra-
created little or no stir. Last November a magazine-Harpers, tion act of 1924. It is this provision of the act of 1924 which
I believe-printed an exposure of the workings of the Fascisti exempts immigration from countries on the Western Hemisphere
in the United States of America.                            from the quota provisions now in force covering the rest of the
It attracted a little attention. The exposure would have been world.
dead in a month, but for this former colleague of ours ToM    Section 3 provides that the quota system now in force shall
HEFLiN-I do not stand for most of the speeches he has made-  not be less in fact but limited as to countries which are now
I am proud that he had the power in the legislative body to read effectively covered. Conditions on this Continent of North
that entire article. He thundered it. He made the public America and on the Continent of South America are held to be
wake and see beyond what was simply a part of our knowledge so widely divergent in character from  the immigration re-
on the subject with no action taken. But H=ruN made the ceived from the various political subdivisions or geographical
dictator in Italy call back the Fascisti. Every Fascisti organiza- areas that immigration from these regions has been artificially
tion in the United States has been closed. Their flags, their stimulated since immigration from Europe has been restricted.
oaths to be first and to be forever Italians, even though natu-  Section 4. This section is chiefly technical for administrative
ralized here, are suppressed for the moment, thanks to that purposes. The data upon which the quotas are based has been
orator who, when he means business, shoots both barrels. I consolidated in some cases by the Commissioner General of Immi-
do not care whether he is a Democrat or a Republican and on  gration into geographical areas rather than'political subdivisions
this bill I do not care what party you belong to, nor should any designated in section 3 of the act for simplicity and precision.
of us, for in these things we are all Americans.            On the computation of the quota established as hereinafter de-
Why do I say a good word for HIsMN? Because what he has scribed, political boundaries have been disregarded and geo-
done to stop open Fascisti meetings in the United States paves  graphical areas formed into immigration units which are pre-
the way for a bill from our committee to take away the citizen- scribed as the basis for quota.
ship of those who insist in dual allegiance. And because I    There is no nature of discrimination In this procedure be-
learn that in my State right now a man from the Mediterranean  cause by and large the immigration from each immigration unit
is rushing around among naturalized-citizens, who desire to be is of the same general character. This Is so for Canada and
good citizens, condemning me for my immigration work in Con- Newfoundland belong together and these two subdivisions of the
gress, and calling on the voters to keep me at home. Last year British Empire are grouped together. Mexico is, of course,
an editor of a New York foreign-language paper, naturalized but grouped as one unit with its dependent island. Central and
for one year, felt it to be his duty to campaign against me in  South American logically fall in the same unit, and finally the
the third congressional district of Washington. In Chicago a  West Indies form the last unit described in this section. It will
few weeks ago a man of God burned me up from a lyceum forum, be noted that each group as constituted shall have separate
and his remarks are printed in an ancient language which I subsections in this section.
can not read. Is that fair?                                   Section 5 is, from a practical viewpoint, the heart of this
However, you can not, I can not-must not-have any feeling bill. This provision establishes the quota system, covering all
against those now amongst us, even though we are attacked   the immigration from the units described in the previous sec-
by the enemies we make by doing what is clearly our duty. We  tion. The method is simplicity itself and involves no discrimi-
work to sustain and perpetuate this Government, and I hope and natory or arbitrary features which could offend the sensibility
pray that means that when we are dead and in our graves the of our dear neighbors, be they near or distant, In North or South
others who come after us and take the oath of allegiance and -America. The basis of this quota system is to be found in
sit in these seats, this Government shall be upheld somewhat on Table 80 of the Annual Report of the Commissioner General of
the lines in which the fathers gave it to us. I pray this for the Immigration for the year 1929. This table enumerates United



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0454.txt

,1540                            CONGRESSIONAL
States citizens who have permanently departed from the United
States for future residence in one or another of the geographical
areas set forth in Table So and which are described for the pur-
pose of this act as immigration units.
The number of departures for the fiscal year 1924 are taken
for each area multiplied by three and the number thus arrived
at is the quota for each area. That is to say to our American
hemisphere alien friends that we will accept three times as
many of your native-born citizens as immigrants as you have
received from us last year. That year has been selected because
it represents as near as may be conditions as they are.
It will be noted that the only arbitrary feature of this system
lies in the fact that we welcome at any time more native-born
aliens of the immigration units which are described in this bill
than we send to those immigration units. The total immigra-
tion established by this method is a little over 50,000, which,
when added to our existing quota, make the total immigration-
in round figures approximately 200,000 as a maximum. It is,
of course, understood that all immigrants admitted under this
act must mneet all the requirements of our immigration laws
other than this law and which are now in force.
Section 6 is equally as important as section 5, inasmuch as it
establishes a system of selection on a basis of mental, moral,
physical, and heredity characteristics which indicate that the
applicant for admission is readily assimilable and of a quality
tending to develop a homogeneous population.
Section 7 is purely technical, for the purpose of preventing
persons born outside of the immigration units established under
'the provisions of this bill to be admitted with the quota allotted
to those areas.
Section 8 is also technical, to make clear that all requirements
now established for the applicant and other features of an ad-
ministrative character as may be now in the act of 1924 shall
be in full force and effect for all areas covered by this bill.
Section 9 is again of a administrative nature. It provides
that the Secretavy of Labor shall make the necessary computa-
tions for the quota and establish all necessary regulations to
give effect to the provisions of the bill.
Section 10. This section reaffirms all existing legislation not
specifically repealed or limited by the language of this bill.
Section 11 provides for the publication of the maximum
quotas. The purpose of this provision is also to enphasize the
fact that it is not obligatory upon the Secretary of Laborl to fill
the quota if the applicants for admission are not of sufficient
high grade to make desirable citizens.
Section 12 provides that the bill shall go into effect on July 1,
1930, which is the flrst day of the next fiscal year.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the previous order of
the House, the gentleman from Texas [Mr. Box] is recognized
for 15 minutes.
Mr. BOX. Mr. Speaker and gentlemen of the House, the
action of the chairman of our committee and his strong speech
in support of this proposition is very gratifying to me. The
House has just given evidence that many Members of the
house are pleased over it. I know it is good news to many of
my Democratic colleagues on the committee, as well as to gen-
tlemen on the Republican side.
I am introducing a bill to-day dealing with the same subject.
There may be some differences in the details of the plans pro-
posed by the chairman and myself, but I am here volunteering
to follow the course -he is taking, which is in the right direction,
and to give him the best support of which I am      capable.
[Applause.]
I shall in due time present to this House the result of. my
own incomplete and imperfect studies of this problem.
I ask permission to incorporate at this place in my remarks
copies of memorials and resolutions passed by State legislatures:
Oregon, which was passed by a unanimous vote of all mem-
bers of both houses present and voting, and is in the following
language:
[Thirty-fifth legislative assembly-regular session]
Senate Joint Memorial No. 5 (introduced by Senator Moser and Mr.
Anderson and read January 24, 1929)
To the honorable Senate and House of ReVresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled:
Whereas there is now pending a bill in the Congress of the United
States, introduced by Senator litnms, of Georgia, providing for an
amendment to the Immigration laws of the United States so as to place
Mexico under the quota provisions applying to other nations; and
Whereas under present conditions many thousands of Mexicans are
entering the United States without any restrictions, and the cheaper
labor of Mexico is rapidly coming in competition with American labor,
and if this condition continues the standard of the American Worker
will be greatly lowered; and

RECORD-HOUSE

JANUAR'Y 13

Whereas the Legislature of the State of-Oregon feels that this cOn-
dition is unjust and should be promptly remedied : Now, therefore, be It
Resolved by the Senate of the Etate of Oregon (the House of Repre-
sentatives jointly conourring thercin), That we. your memorialists, the
Senate of the State of Oregon, the House of Representatives concurring,
respectfully request and petition ihe Congress of tile United States to
promptly pass the legislation hereinabove referred to, placing Mexico
under the same quota provisions concerning immigration as apply to
other nations ; and be it further
Resolved, That the secretary of state of the State of Oregon be,
and he hereby Is, requested and directed to forthwith transmit a
certified copy of this joint memoril to the Vice President of the United
States, the Speaker of the House of Representatives of the United
States, and to each of our Senators and Representatives in Congress,
urging their support on behalf of the matter embraced In this memorial.
In a letter dated December 16, 1929, the secretary of state for
Oregon writes me:
This memorial was adopted by the senate on January 24, 1929, by a
vote of 27 yeas, 3 members being absent. The memorial was adopted
by the house on January 25, 1929, with 59 yeas and 1 excused. The
total membership of the senate Is 30 ; of the house, 60.
The California Legislature spoke in the following language:
CALIFORNIA LEcISLATURE,
ASSEMIBLY C11ANIMBERI
FORTY-uITInT SESSION,
Sacramento.
Assembly Joint Resolution 11, relative to restricted immigration
Chapter 95
Whereas the legislature of this State has consistently urged adherence
by the United States to a policy of restricted immigration ; and
Whereas the present absence of restriction and supervision of immigra-
tion across the southern boundary line of the United States, opens the
door annually to thousands of citizens of the Republic of Mexico, to
large numbers of citizens of nations under the quota, who would other-
wise be excluded, and to many aliens ineligible to citizenship; and
Whereas the standard of living of the great mass of citizens of the
Republic of Mexico is such that no good reason exists why the citizens
thereof should be givem preference, as to entry into tile United States
over the peoples of the European stocks from wlich the great majority
of American citizens are descended ; and
Whereas the influx of laborers across tile Mexican border causes un-
fair and unjust competition to American labor, and at the same time
abrogates and nullifies the beneficial results to be expected from a na-
tional policy of restrictive Immigration ; and
Whereas the continued unrestricted inflow of Mexican people and the
rate of increase of those already lqre, mean the gradual replacement of
the American people by those of Mexican blood; and indicate that in
the near future the populations of the Southern and Western States of
the United States will become predominantly Mexican : Now, therefore
be It
Resolved by the Assembly and the Senate of the State of California,
jointly, That the legislature of this State protests against a continuance
of the present unrestricted immigration frbm the Republic of Mexico
and be it further
Resolved, That the Congress of the United States be, and It is hereby,
respectfully petitioned and urgently requested promptly to provide legis-
lation placing the Republic of Mexico within the provisions of the re-
strictive immigration laws of the United States and providing a proper
annual immigration quota therefor : and be it further
Resolved, That a copy of this resolution be transmitted to the Presi-
dent of the United States, the Vice President of the United States, the
Speaker of the House of Representatives of the United States, and to
each Senator and Representative in Congress from the State of Cali-
fornia.

Attest :

EDGAR C. LEVy,
Speaker of the Assembly.
AnTRa A. OHNIMUS,
Chief Clerk of the Assembly.

I am reliably informed that this resolution was adopted in
the assembly by a vote of 42 to 6 and in the senate by a vote of
21 to 4.
The action by the Arizona Legislature was in the shape of a
senate memorial, in the following language:
