on the artificial aid of an act of Congress to bring them prominently
before the world as commercial centers of business enterprise; but San
Francisco does not rely on such artificial aid for its position. It is and
will be a great commercial metropolis and the objective point of the
world's interest in 1892 without any assistance on the part of Congress.
[Applause.]
Therefore, sir, I feel impartial in this matter. You may place the
exhibition where you please-in New York, in Chicago, in St. Louis,
or in Washington-and Congress render whatever assistance may be
necessary, but I do say the Committee on Foreign Affairs, of which I
happen to be a member, has proceeded honestly and faithfully to dis-
charge its duty, and, if permitted to go on, will report fully and fairly
the necessary legislation to Congress fbr its action.
Mr. McKINLEY. I now yield for ten minutes to the gentleman
from Missouri [Mr. HATCH].
Mr. HATCH. Mr. Speaker, it is necessary for me to state in the
outset that my position on this report from the Committee on Rules
will be governed entirely by a solemn and well-understood compact
entered into between honorable gentlemen representing the four cities
competing for this site. The statement I make in regard to this com-
pact I get from gentlemen who were present when it was made. I do
not state any of the facts from my personal knowledge. Before the
Committee on Foreign Affairs was announced, before a single bill had
been introduced, before it was known to any members of the House
outside of the Speaker who were to compose the Committee on Foreign
Afdhirs, Representatives on this floor, meeting business men from New
York, from Washington, from Chicago, and from St. Louis, agreed
among themselves to recommend to the Representatives from the four
cities particularly interested and to the Representatives a plan by
which each of these cities could have a fair and equal and honorable
representation on that committee. This compact was entered into, and
gentlemen on this floor were committed to it, and I for one shall stand
here and insist it shall be carried out in good faith to-day. This is no
reflection on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for at the time this com-
pact was entered into none of us knew who would compose that com-
mittee, as I have already stated.
And I am surprised, sir, that the distinguished gentleman from Il-
linois, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, should advocate
the minority report submitted by the gentleman, his colleague, from
Illinois. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs ought to
be the last member in this House, in my judgment, to advocate that
report, simply becauseit is well known that he has stated time and again
that, as far as he is concerned, his choice in this matter is fixed. No
amount of argument that could be used before that committee would
change the views of the distinguished chairman of the committee. He
is already committed to a site, and every member of this House knows
that if that committee reports a bill to the House of Representatives
in regard to the world's fair the distinguished gentleman at the head of
that committee will have charge of that bill on the floor of the House.
I ask gentlemen on the floor of the House if, with all that has been
done before, this is a fair proposition? I know the long experience the
gentleman has had upon the floor, and also his skill as a parliamen-
tarian, and not only that, but his skill in diplomacy, and through both
of these reports I think I can see plainly the marks of the diplomatand
the parliamentarian.
Now, Mr. Speaker, all that St. Louis asks, all that the delegates
from that city and the Representatives from the State of Missouri ask,
in regard to the world's fair, is that a special committee shall be ap-
pointed by the Speaker of the House, under the majority resolution
reported by the gentleman from Ohio, and that that committee shall
contain an equal number of friends of the four principal cities compet-
ing for this site, the Speaker to select the chairman.
Mr. Speaker, whatever else St. Louis and Missouri may do on this
floor to secure for St. Louis the world's fair, you can rest assured that no
Representative of that State and no friend of St. Louis will come upon
the floor and ask any undue advantage in her behalf. She needs none.
Her great commercial advantages, her geographical location, her pop-

640



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0645.txt

1890.

ulation, her people, her friends, are all such that she need ask no un-
fair advantage of any or all of the cities of the United States in this
competition for the location of the world's fair. If we can not secure
it by appealing to the judgment of the members on this floor, we do not
want it. If we have to secure it by violating a compact entered into
between honorable gentlemen representing these cities, St. Louis does
not want it.
We simply ask that that agreement shall be carried out in good faith
and the majority report, while it is not all that we expected, may be
adopted by the House.
Now, I know that there are individual members of the Committee
on Foreign Affairs who have not committed themselves to any partic-
ular location. They are honorable gentlemen.   There are many of
them that the friends of St. Louis would as soon see on that commit-
tee on the world's fair as any gentlemen on the floor of this House;
and it is no reflection upon the committee or any individual member
of it that we come before you and simply say that our hands are bound
by an honorable compact and that we ask that that compact be carried
out in good faith. We appeal to the House in behalf of the rights of
all of these cities that made this compact to ratify it by the adoption
of the majority report.
I reserve, Mr. Speaker, whatever time I may not have consumed of
the ten minutes yielded to me.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman has one minute of his time left.
Mr. McKINLEY. I now yield ten minutes to the gentleman from
Missouri [Mr. FRANK].
Mr. FRANK. Mr. Speaker, I am in favor of the majority report
because I believe the creation of a select committee is in the in-
terest of good legislation. Such committee would be able to give its
entire, exclusive, undivided attention to this subject, which now, in
the minds of many people in this country, overshadows all other public
questions. Such a committee properly constituted, as it undoubtedly
would be, would be able to consider the subject Impartially and fairly,
and I do not intend to detract from the worth of the Committee on
Foreign Affairs when I make this statement. Whether we are to have
any legislation upon this subject at all, whether we are to have a world's
fair or not, it is imperative that the conclusion when reached shall be
beyond the suspicion of unfairness and partiality.
Again I repeat that I make no aspersions upon the Committee on
Foreign Affairs. The rule, however, Mr. Speaker, creating that com-
mittee and defining its jurisdiction does not cover this subject.
A MEMBER. The rules have not been adopted.
Mr. FRANK. But the rules have been adopted so far as conferring
jurisdiction upon this committee is concerned. That rule provides
that "all proposed legislation relating to the relations of the United
States and foreign pations "-that is the language of the rule-" shall
go to the Committee on Foreign Affairs." All proposed legislation re-
lating to the relations of the United States with foreign nations.
Now, gentlemen all will agree that this exposition is to be national
in character and international simply as an incident. It is to be the
country's tribute to the immortal courage of the gentleman who dis-
covered this continent, under whose blessings we now live. I do not
think it becoming at this time to allude to the claims of the various
cities competing for the location of this great exposition. I could press
upon your attention convincing reasons why the great, magnificent,
and attractive city of the great Mississippi Valley, the city of my home,
should be the place selected, but I shall refrain from urging them at
this time. [Applause.]
Now, Mr. Speakqr: the legislation respecting the Centennial Expo-
- sition at Philadelphia did not comprehend one act or one resolution
only. It covered a period of five years of legislation; and it is idle to
say that one single act, one single bill, reported from the Committee on
Foreign Affairs will settle this matter. We will have legislation all
along the line; we will have legislation covering the entire period.
Legislation respecting the Centennial Exposition at Philadelphia com-
prehended eleven distinct acts. More than one hundred bills for leg-
islative considerhtion were introduced into this House respecting that
exposition. The Committee on Foreign Affairs will have as much to
do, perhaps, as it may be able to handle, but this committee, with this
subject before it and to which all proposed legislation on this subject
shall be referred, will be able to handle the matter with undivided at-
tention. In addition, Mr. Speaker, to the reason I have briefly urged
in favor of the majority report, I wish to urge this reason as against the
report of the gentleman from Illinois [Mr. CANNON].
I am inexperienced in legislation. I was therefore highly compli-
mented when, on the 6th day of December, the gentleman from Illi-
nois waited upon me at my hotel, accompanied by the gentleman from
New York [Mr. FLOwER], and asked my assent to the introduction of
a resolution calling for the appointment of a select committee of thir-
teen. The gehtleman from New York [Mr. FLOWER] had a resolu-
tion of that character; the gentleman from Illinois [Mr. CANNON] had
a resolution of a similar ehracter; I had a resolution of like character.
With the pride of opinion that is just and honorable in a gentleman of
the everlasting exorience of the astute gentleman from Illinois,the
gentleman from New York [Mr. FLOWER] and myself yielded to the
resolution that he had drawn for the formation of this committee.
XXI-41

641

The gentleman from Illinois was told to report to the Speaker of the
House that we, the representatives of the cities, and the District of Co-
lumbia, represented by the commissioners of the District, would assent
to the selection of a committee of thirteen on the condition that the
Speaker appoint the chairman of that committee and on condition that
he did not hail from any State that had a city which was competing
for the location. It was upon that condition that we assented to the
introjiction of the resolution. The gentleman came to me, not out
of compliment to me, but after having appeared before the Speaker
and having asked permission to introduce a resolution of that character.
The Speaker told the gentleman that he was under promise to me that
before a resolution of that kind was introduced I should le consulted,
because immediately after the election of the officers of this House I
waited upon the Speaker and asked him whether he would recognize
me the next day for the introduction of this resolution. The Speaker
said, "I prefer that you do not ask for recognition for that purpose
at this time." I told the Speaker that any preference of his was, of
course, a command. He then said, "Before any action is taken I will
see that you are informed upon the subject." The purpose I had in
view was that there should be speedy legislation on this subject. There
is very little difference between the majority and the minority report,
but the difference is essential in this: Both provide for speedy legisla-
tion, but one provides for a select committee, to which shall be re-
ferred all legislation upon this subject, while the other provides that a
committee already constituted shall have charge of that matter; and I
will present another reason why that committee should not have charge
of this subject,
Mr. Speaker, the reason for believing that a select committee on this
subject will iubserve the best interests of all and of wholesome legis-
lation lies in the fact that the distinguished chairman of the Commit-
tee on Foreign Affairs, having been appointed at a meeting held at Wil-
lard's Hotel of the representatives of the four cities, was constituted-
by a vote at that meeting the spokesman to appear before the Speaker
on the 18th day of December and lay before him the joint wish of the
four cities competing for this site, namely, that a select committee of
thirteen be appointed to which shall be referred all proposed legislation.
The gentleman from Illinois [Mr. HITT] appeared before the Speaker
in his room as the spokesman of this delegation; the New York dele-
gation was represented by Mr. BELDEN; Chicago and Illinois were rep-
resented by Mr. HITT, and I appeared on behalf of the city I have the
honor In part to represent. The gentleman from Illinois [Mr. HITT],
the present chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, made an
earnest and eloquent appeal to the Speaker that he call together the
Committee on Rules and report favorably a resolution of this character.
The Speaker replied that he was hard pressed for time. He was then
engaged in the arduouslabor of designating the gentlemen on the stand-
ing committees of this House. He said that he would consider the
matter and encouraged us in the belief that our wishes would lie com-
plied with when he secured time. Congress adjourned three days later
for the holiday recess; after the reconvening of Congress the subject has
been pressed hard upon the attention of the Speaker, and he has been
unable until this time to securea report from the Committee on Rules,
which has been submitted to-day. With these observations I submit,
Mr. Speaker, that the majority report should receive the vote of the
members of this House. [Applause.]
The SPEAKER. The gentleman's time has expired.
Mr. McKINLEY. If it be the pleasure of the gentleman from Ken-
tucky, I would like him to take his time now.
Mr. McCREARY. How much time is there?
Mr. FRANK. Mr. Speaker, I request permission to extend my re-
marks in the RECORD.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Missouri requests leave to
extend his remarks in the RECORD. Is there objection?
There was no objection, and it was so ordered.
Mr. CANNON. I yield to the gentleman from Kentucky thIrty
minutes. He can take the whole of it now or reserve such portion of
it as he may think proper to reserve.
Mr. McCREARY. Then I will yield three minutes of that thirty to
the gentleman from Illinois [Mr. SPRINGER].
Mr. SPRINGER. I propose to use the three minutes allowed me
for the purpose of replying to the statement of the honorable gentle-
man from Missouri [Mr. HATCH] in regard to the compact that is
alleged by him to have been made between the representatives of the
four cities competing for this fair. There was no compact made by any
representatives that I know of, and I was present on the occasion to
which the gentleman refers. There was simply a motion made and car-
ried into that conference, in which were represented the four cities com-
peting for the fair, to the effect that a committee of one from each of
the cities should be created to wait upon the Speaker and ask him to
call the Committee on Rules together for the piwpose of requesting that
committee to report a proposition to the House in favor of a special com-
mittee.
Mr. FRANK. Will the gentleman yield for a question?
Mr. SPRINGER. No, sir; I have not time.
Mr. FRANK. I wanted to ask the gentleman if he was opposed to
that resolution.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0646.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

JAUA-RY 16,

Mr. SPRINGER. I was in favor of that resolution, and I believe I
moved its adoption. The committee was agreed to, and the object of
creating it was then stated to be to have it wait upon the Speaker to
ask that he would call the Committee on Rules together before the holi-
days, so that a special committee might be appointed before the holiday
recess, in order that during that recess it might mature the necessary
legislation and have it ready to report to Congress on its reagsembling
in January. The genitleman from Illinois, the chairman of the Cowmit-
tee on Foreign Affairs [Mr. HITT], represented Chicago, and it has
just been stated by the gentleman from Missouri [Mr. FRANK] that
he did, with that committee, appear before the honorable Speaker and
urge him to call the Committee on Rules together; and when that mis-
sion had been performed by the honorable gentleman from Illinois he
had discharged every obligation that was imposed upon him by that
joint council or conference. It was simply for the purpose of facilitat-
ing action by urging the appointment of a special committee before the
holidays; that was the very turning-point in all this matter. That
special committee was not appointed, from no fault of any one of the
cities or their representatives.
I want to reply to another point. There was no agreement on the part
of any representative from Chicago that this special committee should
be composed in any particular way. On the contrary, the Chicago
representatives expressly declined to expressto the Speaker any choice
as to the composition of the committee; so far as they were concerned,
it was to be left entirely to him. Now as to whether the existing com-
mittee is a fair one or not, let gentlemen look at the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, which has taken jurisdiction of this question and is now
ready to report a bill in regard to it. Five of the members of that com-
mittee, Messrs. KETCHAM, ROCKWELL, FITCH, ANDREW, and ScRN-
TON, live nearer to New York than to any other of the competing cities.
Four members of the committee, namely Messrs. MORROw, COLEMAN,
HOOKER, and MCCREARY, live nearer to St. Louis than to any other
of the competing cities; only three of the members, Messrs. HIrr, DUN-
NELL, and CHIPMAN, live nearer to Chicago, and only one lives near-
est to Washington; so that if any city has a right to complain of the
composition of the committee it will be the city of Washington.
Mr. HATCH. Mr. Speaker, I have one minute of my time left and
I would like to be permitted to use it to reply to the gentleman who
has just sat down.
The SPEAKER. Unless there be objection, the gentleman may pro-
ceed.
There was no objection.
Mr. HATCH. I desire to state In reply that the explanation of the
gentleman [Mr. SPRINGER] is simply a special plea. The gentlemen
that he was treating with were not hunting around for little loop-
holes to creep out of an honorable compact.
Mr. SPRINGER. There was no compact.
Mr. HATCH. The resolution came from the city of Chicago and
was delivered to the representatives of the city of St. Louis. I was
one of the representatives from my State appointed to meet that com-
mittee in conference for the purpose of securing a special committee of
thirteen, and until the representatives ofChicago found that they had an
advantage in this bill they never dreamed of withdrawing from that
compact. We may as well state the plain facts in connection with
this matter, because honorable men have got topass upon it. That is
the truth and the whole truth. The other three cities understood that
there was an invitation to meet them in conference for this very pur-
pose, and the purpose was carried out by them in good faith, and we
never heard that you did not intend to keep faith with us until it was
understood just what sort of a bill was being prepared by the Commit-
tee on Foreign Affairs.
Mr. SPRINGER. I ask the getitleman from Kentucky [r. Mc-
CREARY] to yield me half a minute.
Mir. MCCREARY. I yield the gentleman half a minute.
Afr. SPRINGER. I want to state to the House again that there was
no compact in this matter; we had nobody to make a compact with.
I deny the right of any four or five gentlemen to meet in a parlor of
Willard's Hotel and make a compact which will bind this House.
ir. HATCH. Well, if you did not intend to keep it, you never
ought to have invited honorable men to meet you in conferenc3.
Mr. SPRINGER. We kept just what we agreed to keep, and we
went and asked the Speaker to call the Committee on Rules together,
so that there might be a special committee appointed.
Mr. M CREARY. Mr. Speaker, as a member of the Committee on
Foreign Affairs I had no desire at the beginning of this session to be
intrusted with the responsibility of considering world's fair proposi-
tions; neither had I any desire to hear my colleague from Illinois [Mr.
SPRINGER] and my colleague from Missouri [Mr. HATCH] disagree
about a compact alleged to have been made with regard to the appoint-
meat of a special committee on the world's fair, as they have done this
evening. One month ago various bills bearing on the world's fair were
referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Committees of this
House, I believe, are appointed to take charge of such measures as are
referred to them. Therefore, when we found that bills had been! ent
to us in regard to a world's fair to be held at St. Louis, at Chicago, and at
Washington, and when memorials and petitions signed by two hundred

thousand men asking for the world's fair at New York were also sent to
us, there was nothing for the committee to do but to take eharge of the
business, and not have any man "shake his gory locks" at us and say
"the world's fair failed because the Committee on Foreign Affairs failed
to promptly perform its duty."
The Committee on Foreign Affairs held a meeting soon after it was
appointed by the Speaker and examined these bills, and they were re-
ferred to a subcommittee, of which I was a member. We bad no time
to spare. Members of this House who are familiar with past legisla-
tion in the United States and members who are familiar with legisla-
tion in France and in other countries where international exhibitions
have been held know how much time it takes to get ready for a world's
fair. When the Philadelphia exposition was held in 1876 in honor of the
one hundredth anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, the
act of. Congress which authorized that exposition was approved on the
3d day of March, 1871, five years before the exposition was held. The
necessary legislation for the late expesition at Paris was granted four
years before the exposition was held. Therefore the Committee on For-
eign Affairs felt that not only was it their duty to consider such bills
and memorials as were sent to them, but that there should be no waste
of time, no delay in this great movement. It is true that our commit-
tee was not regaled with the wit and the wisdom, the oratorical jewels
and gems, that fell from the lips of tbe distinguished Depew, of New
York, and the able and accomplished governor of Missouri, and the ener-
getic and intellectual mayor of Chicago, and the zealous and accom-
plished committee of Washington; but we nevertheless went to work in
good faith, as was our duty, and as would have been the duty of any
committee appointed by his honor the Speaker, and have nearly com-
pleted our work.
We have held many meetings. We heard nothing about the agree-
ment and we cared nothing about the agreement which the gentle-
man from Missouri [Ir. HATCH] presents one way and which the
gentleman from Illinois [Mr. SPenIxN ] presents another way. In
the faithful discharge of duty the subcommittee took up the world's
fair proposition and made a report to the full Committee on Foreign
Affairs this morning, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs could
make its report to-morrow to the House of Representatives if it was
desired. When I state the propositions that the committee has agreed
upon, no one can say that a select committee should be appointed be-
cause the Committee on Foreign Affairs has acted unfairly or without
justice to all.
The first great proposition now confronting this Congress and the
country is as to whether we should have a world's fair in 1892 or not.
I want to say, Mr. Speaker, that I, for one, am not only in favor of it
to-day, but I was in favor of it in the last Congress. I believe as an
American citizen and I believe as an American Congressman that
there should be an American exposition held to commemorate the four
hundredth anniversary of the discovery of America. I believe that
patriotism, gratitude, national pride, everything which should gladden
the heart of an American citizen, demands that we should give proper
recognition to the four hundredth anniversary of the discovery of Amer-
ica. Thus we will pay proper tribute to the memory of Columbus;
thus we will cultivate social and commercial relations with the nations
of the world; thus we will present to the world the history, the re-
sources, the arts, and the industries of this the greatest Republic in
the world. Thus will we also show a proper appreciation of the wisdom
and the courage of the founders of this Republic; and thus, too, we
will show proper respect for those grand men who, by their wisdom
and statesmanship, framed that Constitution which the great Glad-
stone said was "the most wonderful work ever performed by the brain
and purpose of man."
.The Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously agreed that a world's
fair should be held in 1892 to commemorate the four hundredth anni-
versary of the discovery of America. That is the first proposition.
The other propositions agreed upon by the committee are as follows:
Second, that a national commission shall be constituted to be charged
with the control and management of the fair; third, that foreign na-
tions shall be invited to take part; fourth, that foreign exhibits shall
enter the United States free of duty; fifth, that the United States ex-
hibits shall be provided for by the United States; and, sixth, that the
question of the location of the world's fair shall be submitted to the
House of Representatives without any recommendation by the com-
mittee. [Applause.]
Now, Mr. Speaker, is there anything in these propositions agreed on
by the committee to alarm any person or to show that any member of
that committee is prejudiced in behalf of New York or Chicago or St.
Louis or Washington. I have been repeatedly asked where I desired
.he world's fair held, but I have uniformly refused to state what city
I preferred. I have always believed that the location of the world's
fair should be fixed by the members of the I-ouse of Representatives,
and as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs I determined to
sit as a fair juror, unpledged and uncommitted.
I wish, Mr. Speaker, to ask this question, and I wish the gentleman
who follows me in this debate, and I do not know who he will be, to
answer it. What necessity is there now for a select committee to con-
sider world's fair bills when the committee to which all the world's

642



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0647.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE. .

fair bills have been referred is ready to report and can bring that report
into the House to-morrow morning, and will do so if allowed, and will
leave to the members of the House of Representatives to name the city
where the world's fair shall be held? If we are to have a fair the sooner
we have a bill containing proper legislation and act upon it the better.
I have already said more on this question than I expected. I wish
to say in conclusion that I believe the time has come when the mem-
bers of the House should come to a conclusion in regard to the world's
fair, and this conclusion should be arrivedat without prejudiceor pas-
siou, or improper rivalry. We should regard it with business sense and
with fairness, and with a determination to have the greatest fair the
world has ever seen, and with a desire to commemorate the four hun-
dredth anniversary of the discovery of America by Columbus in a way
becoming to the greatest people and the grandest country onthe earth.
[Applause.] I yield now five minutes of my time to the gentleman
frm Michigan [Mr. CHIPMAN].
Mr. CHIPMAN. Mr. Speaker, ordinarily I would not contend for
what is called upon this floor the right of a committee because I hap-
pened to belong to it, but if in the first place it had been proposed to
refer the matter of a world's fair to a select committee I should have
sat silent in my seat and acquiesced most cheerfully in the action of
the House. But the matter has come to our committee. It came to
our Committee on Foreign Affairs in the last Congress. It has returned
there, and in this Congress as in the last I have been placed on the sub-
committee to consider the whole subject. I find the gentlemen who
advocate the resolution of the gentleman from Ohio [Mr. MCKINLEY]
desire certain things.
I say, most emphatically, to the House that every one of those things
which the gentlemen request, which they insist upon here and seek to
gain through the medium of a select committee, has already been de-
cided in their favor by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
They wish the world's fair. We propose to report it favorably.
They wish the nations of the world to be invited. We have decided
in fivor of that. They wish that arrangements shall be made with
the Treasury Department by which exhibits may be brought over free
of duty. We have decided also in favor of that. But the crowning
question of all is that they wish no prejudice, no undue influence, no
moral force to be added in favor of any place by the report of the com-
mittee, and, Mr. Speaker, the very first act of the committee was to
rw olvo to leave that as an open question for the House under some plan
to be prepared and submitted by us.
Now, what isthe matterwith us? [Laughter and applause.]
A MEmBR. You are right.
Mr. CHIPMAN. That is the question. The gentleman from Mis-
souri [Mr.HATrcH] and the other gentleman from Missouri [Mr. FRANK]
may think that they can do better or have a defter hand at drawing a
bill for a world's fair than we can, but the House in its wisdom has
voted to confer that duty upon us, and now this is an afterthought to
take it away from us. But, if we are pursuing the course which the
majority of the House seems to desire, the only question is, not whether
the course is right, because you agree that it is, but whether we are the
men to carry it out in a proper manner. Gentlemen may sugar-coat the
pill as they will. It is clear that somebody wishes to be a very great
man on the special committee, and I do not know who it is. [Applause
and laughter.]
Mr. McCREARY. How much time has the gentleman consumed?
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Michigan consumed four
minutes.
Mr. McCREARY. I now yield five minutes to the gentleman from
Mississippi [Mr. HOOKER].
Mr. HOOKER. Mr. Speaker, the Speaker of this House of Repre-
sentatives pursued the precedent established inthe last Congress, where
bills of this character were first introduced and referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs: first, a bill looking to the celebration of the
centennial of the adoption of the Constitution of the United States, a
measure, I am sorry to say, that failed, though it was one of the most
important for consideration that could possibly have been suggested to
people whose liberties are held and whose Constitution has been copied
by a large portion of the republics of Central and South America, and
another measure for the celebration of the quadro-centennial of the land-
ing of Columbus in 1492. These were referred to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, and in so referring them at the present Congress I re-
peat that the Speaker of the House was pursuing the precedent hereto-
fore established in regard to bills of this character, referring them to
the committee where they properly belong and to which committee
alone they should be referred.
I beg to say to my friend from Missouri [Mr. FRANK], therefore, who
upon his first appearance on the floor has presented his views with great
suceinctness and clearness on this proposition, that there was not any
other committee, save the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the
Speaker of the House could have referred such a proposition.
As to the agreement alluded to by my friends the gentleman from
Missouri [Mr. HATCi] and thegentleman from Illinois [Mr. SPRINGER],
with reference to a conference held by the various respective cities
and their representatives competing for the site of this exposition, I
know nothing and knew nothing, and I think the majority of the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs were ignorant of the fact.

It has been said by the gentleman from Missouri [Mr. FRANK], to
whom I have already referred, that a committee constituted of the
friends of the respective competing cities, that is to say, a committee
composed of three from New York, three from Chicago, three from St.
Louis, and three from the Federal city of Washington, where the Gov-
ernment sits, would be undoubtedly a more impartial committee to
prepare and present a bill for the consideration of the House than the
Committee on Foreign Affairs. In this I beg to differ with my honor-
able friend. If we have a standing committee, to whom under the
rules of the House and to whom by the nature of the subject the
matter has been referred, capable of dealing with it and not pledged to
any site, I ask if that would not be a more impartial tribunal as to the
mode and manner of conducting this fair?
As to ihe financial question, which is the most important, that can
not be settled until the House itself has settled upon a site; and, as
has been well said by the gentleman from Michigan, Judge CHIPMIAN,
upon the first assembling of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, when
these matters were brought to the attention of the committee by its
distinguished chairman [Mr. HITT], the unanimous determination of
the committee, the chairman himself, I believe, being the suggester and
proposer of the proposition, was that we, as a committee, would not
suggest in any bill framed by the committee a site, but would relegate
that subject to the House, where it properly belonged. And with the
exception of the supposition that because the honorable chairman comes
from Illinois, and therefore would be in favor of Chicago, a very nat-
ural supposition probably-I say that, with the exception of that gen-
tleman, I do not know to-day the opinion of a single member of the
committee in regard to his preference as between the four cities named
as the site to be selected.
And, Mr. Speaker, in regard to the proposition that because the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs chances to be presided over by the gentleman
from Illinois as chairman of that committee it would be influenced
in its action in regard to the matter, I beg to say that I do not so un-
derstand the minds of the committee. The chairman is but a member
or spokesman, and expresses the will of the committee; and I feel as-
sured from my knowledge of the honorable gentleman that, so far from
endeavoring to sway the inclination, judgment, orconclusion of the com-
mittee, the very fact that he is from Chicago or from the great State of
Illinois would make him more careful, more modest, more prudent, and
more considerate in this matter than otherwise.
Mr. HATCH. If the gentleman understood me as saying anything
that he could construe into an expression that he has just used, that I
thought the gentleman from Illinois would have any influence over
the committee, the gentleman is mistaken. I did not say anything
of that kind.
The SPEAKER. The time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. HOOKER. I just want a moment.
Mr. McCREARY. I yield to the gentleman from Mississippi.
Mr. HOOKER. I simply wanted to conclude, upon the courtesy of
the gentleman from Kentucky, by saying that I am satisfied that any
other city which is a candidate for the location of the world's fair, if
the committee proposed by the majority is not appointed and the mat-
ter goes to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, need not be apprehensive
because the gentleman from Illinois [Mr. HITT], the chairman of that
committee, is from a State in which one of the cities mentioned is lo-
cated, and that therefbre there would be any feeling in that commit-
tee in favor of that locality.
Mr. Speaker, this question of the celebration of the adoption of the
Constitution and the celebrating of the quadro-centennial of the land-
ing of Columbus in this country was originated in the city of Washing-
ton by aboard of promotion, and extending all through the Fiftieth Con-
gress measures relating thereto werereferred to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs, and that board of promotion, through its intelligent secretary,
repeatedly came before the committee during the last Congress in order
to urge them, and if we are to have a centennial of the landing o Co-
lumbus in 1492, and if it be held in one place or another, certainly the
city of Washington had the honor of suggesting that it should be held.
[Applause.]
The SPEAKER. The time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. McCREARY. How much time have I left? I believe I have
five minutes left.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman has five minutes left.
Mr. McCREARY. I reserve that five minutes.
Mr. McKINLEY. I yield five minutes to the gentleman from New
York [Mr. PAYNE].
Mr. PAYNE.    Mr. Speaker, I have noticed that no committee orno
member of the House is ever inclined to give up anything that he is
entitled to except a little portion of his salary or something of that
kind. [Laughter.]
Mr. EZRA B. TAYLOR. And particularly if it belongs to anybody
else.
Mr. PAYNE. And they are always more generous for their brethren
than for themselves. I remember that in the Forty-ninth Congress I
made a struggle to relieve the Judiciary Committee from a large portion
of the business with which they were burdened and give it to the Com-
mittee on the Revision of the Laws. I think I demonstrated that the
Committee on the Revision of the Laws was so constituted by the

1890.

643



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0648.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

JA.wuuA1Y 16,

Speaker that they were able to grapple with any of the questions that
were perplexing the Committee on the Judiciary, and I should have
succeeded in making that division in the House except that the able
gentlemen who were upon the Committee on the Judiciary opposed it
and beat us by a very small majority.
Now, I have noticed this morning thot, while we have spent in debate
upon the minority report and in favor of it nearly forty-five minutes
of time, every gentleman who has spoken upon that question, ex-
cept my friend from Illinois, who had three and a half minutes of time,
every gentleman who spoke upon that side of the question was a dis-
tinguished member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and there it
seems to hold good that no member of the House or no committee of
the House wants to give up anything that it or he finds he has got pos-
session of.
Why, Mr.Speaker, the House did notcontemplate, when they adopted
this rule in reference to the appointment of committees and referring the
relations of the United States to foreign nations, that they were referring
to that committee any question growing out of either the location or
holding or the providing legislation for the world's fair in 1892. A gen-
tleman had already introduced a resolution for this legislation on the
9th day of December, providing for a special committee of nine mem-
bers, to whom all these questions were to be referred, and had it not
been for the engrossment otherwise of the Committee on Rules this reso-
lution for a special committee would have been brought into the House
soon after the 9th of December, and this special committee would have
been appointed and announced to the House on the 21st of December,
when the Committee on Foreign Affairs was announced to the House,
and all of these bills would have had a proper place and an appropri-
ate committee to go to, and there would not have to be any stretch of
interpretation of the rules in order to find a resting-place for bills that
were introduced for the world's fair in 1892. And now the committee
report this rule, and they report it with the provision that a committee
shall within three days submit to the House some fair proposition by
which the House can determine where the world's fair will be held,
and, when that is done and the determination is made fairly by the
House, let all of us, whether we are in favor of Washington, St. Louis,
or Chicago, or whether we are in fivor of the metropolis of America as
the place of holding the world's fair [applause]-let all of us unite
heartily and give our aid to the committee appointed by the Speaker,
that this thing can have perfect legislation, that this fair may be an
honor to the country and an honor to the occasion which it is given in
honor of.
Mr. McKINLEY. I yield ten minutes to the gentleman from New
York [Mr. FLOWER].
*SIr. FLOWER. I am in favor of the majority report of the Com-
mittee on Rules. I am in favor of a select committee, and never as a
member of the delegation from New York have I been in favor of any-
thing else since they entered into the agreement with Chicago, St.
Louis, and Washington that they would have a special committee.
We think that the way to make haste is to have a committee appointed
for one special business. We think that the representatives of the va-
rious cities can agree how they should take this vote in the House and
what kind of a bill they would present, and let the result be deter-
mined by a vote in the House-how that vote shall be taken; that the
lowest city and the next lowest shall drop out; to agree upon that in
committee, and therefore have it a finished work before this House,
and let the House dispose of it. We believe in that, and, therefore,
Mr. Speaker, we have not presented a bill for the holding of the fair
in the city of New York.
As I understand, they have had no bill for the city of St. Louis, none
for the city of Washington, and none ibr the city of New York.
Mr. HITT. That is an error.
Mr. FLOWER. Have you a bill for the city of New York?
Mr. HITT. The gentleman from Tennessee [Mr. HouR] introduced
a bill for the city of Washington and another gentleman [Mr. FRANK]
introduced a bill for the city of St. Louis.
Mr. FLOWER. Mr. FRANK, I know, introduced a small bill which
did not represent the committee. Mr. Speaker, the delegation from
the State of New York unanimously requested me to present the bill
at the proper time, and I have been waiting for this committee ever
since, as you, sir, very well know. [Laughter.] I tried to keep Chi-
cago and Washington and St. Louis off from the Speaker all the while
he was making up his committees. The gentleman from Illinois and
myself tried to keep them away, so that the Speaker might distribute
the members of this House, as I think he has done, for the best ad-
vantage of the Republican party. [Laughter.] .We succeeded in doing
that, but we expected that this committee would be appointed by him,
and we have waited upon our arms from that time to this in that ex-
pectation. We have done this without meaning any disrespect to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, because we entered into this arrange-
ment, knowing it to be a fair and reasonable one, before the Commit-
tee on Foreign Affairs was appointed, and now we ask this of the House
in justice and in fairness to Washington, to Chicago, to St. Louis, and
to New York.
Mr. McCREARY. I yield two minutes and a half to the gentleman
from Illinois [Mr. HOPKINS].

Mr. HOPKINS. Mr. Speaker, the question before the House, as I
understand it, does not affect the rights or the interests of either of the
cities which are competing for the site of the world's fair of 1892. The
proposition in the resolution offerad is to take from one of the standing
committees of this House legislation which has been properly and reg-
ularly referred to it and to transfer that legislation to a committee to
be created specially by this House. Now, before a proposition of that
kind is carried, I say that in justice to the members of this standing
committee some reason should be given why the committee which is
invesfigating the subject-matter is regarded as incompetent to dis-
charge fully and fairly that duty. This resolution is unprecedented
in the history of the House.
Never-never, I repeat, Mr. Speaker, has legislation been taken from
a regular and permanent committee of this House without the con-
sent of the members of that committee. The gentleman from the State
of New York [Mr. PAYNE] stated here awhile ago that in the Forty-
ninth Congress he undertook to do what is proposed in this resolution,
by taking from the Committee on the Judiciary certain matters that.
were referred to that committee, and that the 1Iouse refused to take
that legislation from the Committee on the Judiciary. The gentleman,
from New York who has just taken his seat [Mr. FLOWER] speaks as,
though that State were not represented. The Committee on Foreign
Affairs has two members from the State of New York, and I want t6:
ask that gentleman what there is in the character of either or both of
those New York men that he is unwilling to trust this legislation with
them ?
Mr. FLOWER. We are quite willing that they shall go on the
special committee.
Mr. HOPKINS. Very well; sit down, then, and vote to retain this
legislation before the committee which now has possession of it.
Mr. FLOWER, Oh! we do not propose to do that.
Mr. HOPKINS. New York has two representatives on the com-
mittee; New England has two representatives; the Southern States have
two representatives, and the Pacific coast is represented in the person'
of Mr. MORROW.      A fairer committee can not be selected by the
Speaker.
[Here the hammer fell.]
Mr. CREARY. I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. McKINLEY. I yield five minutes to the gentleman from New
York [Mr. SPINo.A].
Mr. SPINOLA. With the gentleman's permission I will take my
five minutes later.
Mr. McKINLEY. Then I yield five minutes to the gentleman from.
New York [Mr. TurNERI.
Mr. TURNER, of New York. Mr. Speaker, there is one point that
seems to have escaped the observation of the able gentlemen who have.
addressed the House on this subject; that is, the eminently fair propo-;
sition, the entirely impartial :proposition, that this House shall firstf
determine whether this world's fair shall be held east or west of the
Alleghanies! Did it occur to the astute gentleman presenting thi
proposition that the great imperial city of New York lies east also of
the Hudson? Would it not be equally fair, Mr. Speaker, to ask this
House to determine whether we should hold the world's fair east or
west of the Mississippi or east or west of the Hudson?   -
It is, in my judgment, Mr. Speaker, an unfair attempt to forccmem-
bers living west of the Alleghanies, whose first choice might not be
that marvel by the lake, to vote to hold the world's fair west of the
Alleghanies, with the idea that then we who are so unfortunate as to
live east of that bridge of mountains might possibly come to the assist-
ance of the gentlemen from the city by the lake. It is proposed, I
believe, Mr. Speaker, because the men who favor the city of Chicago
realize and know that when the sober second thought is taken upon
this proposition, when members have voted once for the city which.
they represent or the city which is the center of the district they rep-i
resent, when they have paid to St. Louis, and to Washington, and to
Chicago the compliment of their first vote, then, when the sober second
thought is taken by the members of this House, the claims of the great
imperial city of New York will stand out pre-eminent above all others,
and it is for that reason, sir, that they want New York, the giant, ex-
cluded from the ring.
This I say is an eminently unfair proposition that is attempted to be
foisted upon this House. I have not had the advantage of years of
experience here, nor of extensive acquaintance with previous debates
upon this floor, but I appeal to the oldest member here, and I ask,
who ever heard of a proposition like this to be decided upon sectional,
lines? Who ever heard of the East being divided against the West?
It is bad enough to have had the North and the South divided against
each other; but here is a proposition to introduce a new line of de-
markation and to force together As allies elements which are as wide;
apart as the poles. And this proposition comes to us In the guise of-
fairness !
I have no desire, Mr. Speaker, to tespass further upon the indulgence;
of this House. If this were simply a question whether the Committ6e'
on Foreign Affairs should alone discuss the matters of detail, leaving'
to this House the determination of the site of the fair, that would bej
a different question. But unfortunately there is an extremely largei

644



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0649.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

colored gentleman in the fence. [Laughter.] What we complain of is
this insidious, this covert, I think I may safely say this unfair effort
to take advantage of a seemingly fair proposition in such a manner
that the voice of every Representative east of the Alleghanies is silenced
and his constituency unheard. [Applause.]
Mr. McKINLEY. I now yield five minutes to the gentleman from
New York [Mr. QUINN].
Mr. QUINN. I will reserve my five minutes.
Mr. McKINLEY. The gentleman can have five minutes now if he
wants to occupy the time.
Mr. QUINN. I prefer to reserve it, with the permission of the gen-
tleman.
Mr. McKINLEY. I yield five minutes to the gentleman from Mary-
land [Mr. MoCoMAS].
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT.
A message in writing wa§ received from the President, by Mr. PRU-
DEN, one of his secretaries.
WORLD'S FAIR.
Mr. MoCOMAS. Mr. Speaker, every member here desires that there
shall be a great exposition, and whether it be held in one place or an-
other I am most concerned that it should be worthy of the whole country.
The exhibit at Paris from this country was not adequate. This fair of
1892 should be worthy of us and of our country. I have no sympathy
with the idea of hawking this projectabout upon the basis of municipal
subscriptions of stock. It should be national and broad-intensely
national and in every sense broad. For that very reason the commit-
tee charged with the duty of locatingthe fair should be special. There is
enough work for a special committee to do, and it must be done promptly.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, I apprehend, with the demands of
other questions upon their attention, have not time to attend ade-
quately to this subject. Under the rules the "relations of the United
States with foreign nations, including appropriations therefor" are re-
ferred to that committee. The propositions for the exposition at Mel-
bourne and the exposition at Paris were properly so referred, and I
only regret that we had not a better exhibit in the last of those expo-
sitions. I assume it is not the fault of the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I am not willing to cast any aspersion upon the
Committee on Foreign Affairs. There is not a better committee in this
House. I have the highest respect for all its members. I do not know
any man in this House better equipped to act on this subject or to
whom I would more willingly confide any legislation than the honored
chairman of that committee. But it is, I think, no aspersion upon the
committee to adopt the majority report. Every member of that com-
mittee has some bias; I fear that I have bias; every member here has
it; it is more universal than the " grip." Herbert Spencer says that
bias is something of which a man himself is unconscious. The major-
ity report of the Committee on Rules has made provision for counter-
acting the effect of this bias, which influences all men and of which
all are unconscious. Daniel Webster says that any man accustomed
to self-examination knows that there is something in himself which
makes him care more for the community which is nearest to him than
for one that is farther away.  The report of the majority of the com-
mittee proposes to neutralize that bias, and thus guard against its in-
fluence. It proposes to make this matter representative and national.
I find that a body elsewhere has appointed a committee embracing
seven Senators from west of the Alleghanies and seven from cast of the
Alleghanies, with a fifteenth man added as chairman. I find on the
Committee on Foreign Affairs eight men on one side of the Alleghanies
and five on the other. There are no better men than these gentlemen,
but they have this bias of locality, of which they and I alike may be
unconscious. The proposition here is to give a committee with six
members on one side and six on the other; with a chairman chosen by
the Speaker. In this way provision is made for a countervailing bal-
ance of personal or locality interests-provision that every section may
be heard, that all these sites may be considered. Then, as, at Paris,
the young Republic of France has held in her own capital the greatest
exposition the world has yet known, her sister Republic of this country,
without halting many days upon the question of site, will good-
bumoredly decide through her representatives here upon the place
where this greatest of all republics shall bold the greatest of all exhibi-
tions In 1892.
Mr. MCKINLEY. I yield one minute to the gentleman from New
York [Mr. CuxmrsNcs.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Speaker, that the American people are inter-
ested in the woro's fair is known to every member on this floor; and
their interest in It is such that they will tolerate no trickery in legisla-
tiojp. The bill should go to a special committee. I appeal to the rec-
ord forpiecedent. Was the bill providing for the world's fair held dur-
ing the centennial year of our independence referred to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs? Was It referred to the Committee on Commerce?
No; go back to the record, and you will find that it was referred to a
select committee, whose chairman was Mr. Hopkins, of Pennsylvania
And that gallant soldier and statesman from Massachusetts, General
NATHANIEL P. BANKS, now a member of this House, was a member of

that committee. You will also find that the bill in relation to the world's
fair held in New York during the administration of Franklin Pierce
was also referred to a select committee. All that the city of New York
asks, all that the people of the State of New York ask, all that the peo-
ple of the American Union ask, is a fair, square deal and no trickery.
In the light of precedent this measure should go to a special commit-
tee. Such a reference would be a fair and square deal. It would set
at rest all charges of trickery and violations of compacts made before
the holidays, and make the people both west and east of the Alleghanies
and north and south of the Ohio feel that the choice of a site will be
made upon the merits of the question alone
[Here the hammer fell. ]
Mr. McKINLEY. I yield for five minutes to the gentleman from
New York [Mr. FARQUHAR].
Mr. FARQUHAR. Mr. Speaker, asa Representative of the State of
New York I do not feel that I am bound to hold up that great city in
all her claims. But as an old member on this floor, and as a friend of
fair legislation, I think it is due to the city of Washington, to the city
of Chicago, and to the city of St. Louis that the New Yorkers in all
that they do on the floor of this House should give to these three cities
all the fairplay they deserve.
As to the question of respect or disrespect in forming a new com-
mittee, let me say that a special committee was called for in a resolu-
tion introduced in the first week of December. So there is nothing
new in that point. We find many special committees in the House.
The House to-day has a Special Committee on Irrigation of Arid Lands.
Certainly the matters which go to that committee germanely belong to
the Committee on Agriculture. We find also a Committee on Immi-
gration and Naturalization, and it was created only because another
committee had more business to do than they could properly bring be-
fore this House. That is the reason why a special committee was
formed and the subject was not left to the Committee on Labor. We
also have a special committee to investigate the proposition of the pur-
chase of certain ballot-boxes, and instead of referring the whole mat-
ter properly to the Committee on Elections we chose to create a special
committee by a resolution.
So I say, Mr. Speaker that the argument of the gentleman from
Illinois [Mr. HOPKINs1 has no basis at all. There is no disrespect
in forming this special committee, but there is the utmost respect for
fair play and good parliamentary order in placing in the hands of a
special committee a matter which they can alone thoroughly sift to the
bottom, and which they can bring into this House by the formulation
of legislation the most perfect which is possible to be made.
The city of New York asks no one here to advocate her claim. If
this exposition shall be one fit to be made for the whole world, New
York claims that the metropolis of America is the city to hold it in.
And, sir, she does not come empty-handed to ask the votes of this
House. Ample means are provided, and brainy and active and hon-
orable men will see that it is properly conducted. She simply asks a
fair and equal show in this House with any other city.
So that, Mr. Speaker, while they draw geographically a line I feel
it is unfair to Washington, that it is unfair to St. Louis, that it is un-
fair to Chicago that any sectionalism should crop out in this matter
in respect to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I believe it is the
consensus of opinion of this House that in order to save friction, to avoid
sectionalism, to make it a matter of fair play to all, this select con.-
mittee should be appointed, and I believe we can leave the honor of
the House and the honor of that world's fair in the hands of the Speaker,
who would appoint it. Then all sites will have fair play in court,
whether Chicago, St. Lowis, Washington, or New York.
Mr. McKINLEY. I yield for five minutes to the gentleman from
New York [Mr. SPINOLA].
Mr. SPINOLA. Mr. Speaker, it has been tacitly understood by al-
most every gentleman on the floor of this House since we convened
here on the 2d day of December that this great question in regard to
the world's fair should be referred to a special committee to be ap-
pointed by the Speaker. That has been the understanding with al-
most every gentleman on the floor of this House, and on the 9th day
of December a resolution pointing in that direction was introduced and
referred to the Committee on Rules for its action. To-day the Com-
mittee on Rules has reported back that resolution amended so as to do
justice to all the competing cities asking this thir to be located in their
midst. A littlelater on the friends of Chicago, always active and never
lacking when the interests of Chicago are to be protected, slipped in a
bill and had it referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
That was on the 18th day of December, eleven days subsequent to
the time when this resolution was referred to the Committee on Rules
for its consideration; but between these dates a compact was solemnly
entered into by the friends of St. Louis in this House, by the gentle-
men representing Chicago in this House, and by the friends of Wash-
ington, who also occupy seats on this floor, as well as gentlemen from
the State of New York, which was a solemn agreement that a commit-
tee of thirteen members should be selected, three from each of the four
competing cities, and the Speaker to select the thirteenth man, who
should not be a resident of either of the States or cities asking for the
privilege of holding this fair within its jurisdiction.

1890.

645



NEWFILE
