acquiescence of the acting committee that covered the reor-
ganization I made a pledge to the House about that matter
and stated at the time that so far as I was concerned I would
resist in every way possible making the National Resources
Board a permanent agency.
Mr. DIRKSEN. The gentleman did so state.
Mr. WARREN. And I further think that, had it not been
eliminated from the reorganization bill, we never would have
been able to get that measure through the House.
Mr. DIRKSEN. Exactly.
Mr. CASE of South Dakota. Mr. Chairman, will the gen-
tleman yield?
Mr. DIRKSEN. Oh, I hope the gentleman will excuse me;
I fear that my time will elapse before I get through. I direct
attention now for a moment to the Home Owners' Loan Cor-
poration, and when I do, let me point out to you that there
are over 30 separate Government corporations and lending
agencies operating today that represent their assets to be
about $12,800,000,000, and they represent their liabilities to
be $8,800,000,000; and if you want to get some real informa-
tive reading sometime, I suggest that you have the Treasury
send you every month this bulletin of the Treasury Depart-
ment. This is dated December 1939. There are some very
informative tables on these Government corporations and
their outstanding obligations. There is the list-$12,866,-
000,000 in assets and a total of about $8,800,000,000 in liab.li-
ties. Offhand we are $4,000,000,000 to the good. Is that not
sweet? Yes; it is until you look at it, and then it takes on a
different cast. Let me point out, first of all, with respect to
these Government corporations, that there are in the hands
of the American public today, as of October 1939, over
$5,448,000,000 of guaranteed bonds. Those bonds are guar-
anteed as to principal and interest; and then when they
come with the Budget statement, they say, "That is all right,
because on the other side are recoverable assets." What kind
of recoverable assets? Mortgages upon the homes of the
people held by the Home Owners' Loan Corporation, ad-
vances by the Commodity Credit Corporation and secured
paper for it, Reconstruction Finance Corporation loans-all
of that sort of thing; P. W. A. bonds; all those fine assets.
Have you ever seen a consolidated balance sheet as to what
those assets might be? Let me tell you about one of them,
and that is the Home Owners' Loan Corporation. I do not
envy Mr. Fahey his job as head of the largest money-lending
establishment anywhere in the world. He is going to have
plenty of difficulty before he gets through. When they fin-
ished lending and stopped applications, they had made
1,017,000 loans, a little over $3,000,000,000. How much did
they lose this last year? Sixty-six million dollars. That is



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0391.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

not all. He said in his report to us that the average loss was
about $920 a house. I asked whether there were any expenses,
commissions, and whether there were any selling charges.
"Oh, yes," he replied; and then I asked him to kindly extend
them in the record in the form of a table. Mr. Chairman,
that will be found in the hearings. There were over
$15,000,000 in selling charges, to sell homes on which Uncle
Sam had loaned money, and now he is taking them back from
the people.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. DIRKSEN. Not now. Do you remember how they
used to deride us in those celebrated hundred days of 1933,
when they talked about those flinty-hearted, grasping bank-
ers; those building and loan associations that had no soul and
no sympathy, but reached out and foreclosed the homes of
indigent and distressed citizens? Who is doing it now?
Uncle Sam. He has foreclosed over 175,000 of those homes,
which is 171/2 percent of all the mortgages that have been
made.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman
yield right there?
Mr. DIRKSEN. They have sold over 70,000. They still
own over 82,000-you and I own them today. You see, this
is our Government, and you and we and the other 130,000,000
people today own 82,000 homes that have been taken by
voluntary deed of foreclosure.
The CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentleman from Illinois
has expired.
Mr. DIRKSEN. Mr. Chairman, I shall take another 15
minutes.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. DIRKSEN. In a moment. I said to Mr. Fahey, "What
is the capital investment of Uncle Sam in these homes?"
and he replied $480,000,000, and it is in the record. I asked
him then if he would put in the estimated current market
value of them, if they were in liquidation today. What is the
estimated current market value of the homes that we the
people own, 82,000 of them, not including the 71,000 that have
been sold?
Mr. GIFFORD. Oh, those have not been sold, actually.
They were disposed of on a little payment down.
Mr. DIRKSEN. But I am talking about homes we still
own-$480,000,000 capital investment, $360,000,000 estimated
current market value. Draw a line, subtract, loss how
much?-$120,000,000. Not my figures. Those are the figures
of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation, and you will find
them in the record.
Now, when you go back home you can tell your people, with-
out fear of contradiction, that that is the record. Isn't that
noble?
Now, the gentleman from New York [Mr. FITZPATRICK] has
been deviling me some about sales. Let me tell you about
New York. Down in Oklahoma, for instance, they sell a
house and how much do they lose on it? Six or seven hun-
dred dollars. They sell one in Illinois and how much do they
lose, including sales cost?  Twelve hundred dollars. They
sell one in New York and how much do they lose? They
lose over $3,274 per property. That is in the record.
Now I yield to my beloved associate. [Laughter.]
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Is it not a fact there are about
$76,000,000 in the surplus fund of the Home Owners' Loan
Corporation at the present time?
Mr. DIRKSEN. Right.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. And is it not a fact that they saved
over 1,000,000 homes in this country, and about 17 percent now
have been foreclosed? Loans that no bank would uphold.
Over a million people would have lost their homes only for
that bill. The gentleman referred to New York. Yes; homes
in New York cost $18,000, and in other parts of the country
they only cost $1,500 and $2,000. The reason why we are
losing the amount the gentleman referred to is because of the
great inflation in 1926, 1927, and 1929 under the Republican
Party that increased prices 500 and 600 percent. [Laughter
and applause.]   That is the reason today, When they get

down to the real price, they are losing money. But remember,
they have saved a million homes, that the banks would have
foreclosed. I doubt if we ever passed a bill in this House that
served the people more. I am going to ask the gentleman
from Illinois this: How does he stand on second-, third-, and
fourth-class mail, on which we lost $130,100,257.20, as a sub-
sidy to second-, third-, and fourth-class mail? The gentle-
man favors that, but he does not favor giving it to the home
owners of this country. How do you stand on that?
Mr. DIRKSEN. I will join with my friend any time that
he brings a bill on this floor to absolutely delete all mail sub-
sidies. You have got my vote now.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. If there is an amendment offered on
the Post Offices bill to cut that out, will you support the
amendment?
Mr. DIRKSEN. I certainly shall.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. You shall? [Laughter and applause.]
Well, I am glad to hear it.
Mr. McCORMACK. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. DIRKSEN. Just a moment. Let me take a little more
time.
Gentlemen, you remember when the Home Owners' Loan
Corporation was created. Do not you remember the repre-
sentations that we made on the floor, that we would not lose
money; in fact, that we would make money? When Mr.
Fahey came before the committee he said, "There is a fair
chance that we may break even." Oh, it was an easy way
to get out of the realism that stands before him, a monumen-
tal loss. When it is liquidated what is going to happen?
Reach into Uncle Sam's Treasury. That is always the case.
Do you not know there are four or five corporations now in
existence, the United States Housing Corporation and others,
that were organized and which functioned during the World
War? The gentleman from Michigan [Mr. MICHENER] will
remember those. We are still carrying them on the books.
They have not been fully liquidated yet. Now, wait until
liquidation comes for some of these corporations. Oh, it
may be a tragic story for the people of this country.
Mr. GIFFORD. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. DIRKSEN. I yield.
Mr. GIFFORD. Mr. Fahey's statement to the Committee
on Banking and Currency was that he would not lose any
money because they could borrow at 2 percent and they would
loan at 4 or 41/2 percent, and that would take up all losses
they had. That was his testimony.
Mr. DIRKSEN. Now, while we are talking about loaning
corporations, let me present what has happened to some of
these bonds.
Mr. McCORMACK. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. DIRKSEN. If it is very brief.
Mr. McCORMACK. Oh, naturally. I take it that my
friend favored the law which created the Home Owners'
Loan Corporation?
Mr. DIRKSEN. Definitely. I was for it. I voted for
over half of these things, and I am proud that I did, because
I wanted your administration, your President, and you good
Members to have every opportunity to raise this country out
of its trouble. That is why I went along.
Mr. McCORMACK. As a matter of fact, former President
Hoover recommended the Home Owners' Loan Corporation
and I think it is a good thing.
Mr. DIRKSEN. Yes. It is not the idea; it is in the
administration where we excel, and always have. [Applause
and laughter.]
While we are speaking of assets I want you to take these
hearings; I want you to look at the bonds that are held by
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and by the Public
Works Administration. There are over 350 issues that are in
default. That is about 10 percent of the whole number of
issues. They are scattered all over the country, but are rep-
resented by waterworks systems mostly, and that sort of
thing, and then I want you to examine the column of reasons
why they are in default.
Down in Winfield, W. Va., they report default on the water-
revenue bonds because of "failure of officials to collect

1940

391



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0392.txt

charges." That is in the record supplied by the Public Works
Administration.
Down in the little town of Mineral, Va., they are in default
because of "costly water supply and lack of interest in the
management." Down in Strawn, Tex., they are in default
because of insufficient revenue. Down in Marquez, Tex., they
are in default because of "competition from private wells
and systems." In Jamestown, Tenn., they are in default be-
cause of "poor management and insufficient revenue."
Down in Lynchburg, S. C., they are in default because of
"lack of customers and nonpayment of hydrant rental."
That is one of the best reasons I know why default should
occur, because they do not have customers.
In my own State we have some rather interesting examples.
They built a waterworks system by W. P. A. at Grafton, Ill.,
down on the Illinois River. When we asked why bond inter-
est could not be paid, they said: "These people have a preju-
dice against river water." Extraordinary, is it not? Then
there is the case of Shawneetown, Ill. Lafayette went up the
Ohio River and landed at Shawneetown many generations
ago-a beautiful old city, but the floods came, and they moved
the city about 10 or 15 miles away. I believe all the Mem-
bers from Illinois are familiar with it, but they left the
system built by the W. P. A. before they moved. Evidently
the town moved away after the W. P. A. had installed the
water system, because in their report they say: "This commu-
nity has suffered from flood. Now being moved to its new
location. No improvement likely until city stabilized in its
new location." So you see they just moved out on the
W. P. A., and the bonds are in default.
There is one from Northport, Mich.: "Failure of official to
operate system economically and efficiently." Finally there
is one from Galatia, Ill., in default upon its water-revenue
bonds because of "bad management and defalcations of city
clerk." Amazing how one fellow could gum up the works like
that, is it not?
But those are the assets that are disclosed in the report
of the Federal Treasury in the form of recoverables against
the billions of contingent obligations that we own. Mr.
Chairman, I certainly would like to see a consolidated balance
sheet to see just how we stand. How are we going to make
an intelligent Budget estimate? How are we going to give
an accounting to the people for their money that we have
been disbursing and lending unless we know what these
probable assets are and what we can realize on them if they
must be liquidated? Oh, that report is pregnant with drama,
and it will be more dramatic as the years go along. Now
let me allude to a minor item concerning the Federal Hous-
ing Administration, a pretty good agency; but you know,
I believe that when Uncle Sam enters into competition with
private industry he ought to give private industry a fair
show.
I asked Mr. Ferguson, the general counsel, what he ad-
vertises in this literature on title I, modernization loans, as
the rate of interest, what statements they make in this
brochure that is sent to the people. Here are some of these
brochures of the Federal Housing Administration. In this
they do not use the word "interest."   They use the word
"discount." Examine these and you will find they say about
title I, modernization loans, "$5 discount per hundred."
When I was down here in December I saw the order of
the Federal Trade Commission, dated December 11, 1939.
They had Henry Ford, General Motors, Chevrolet, and others
under charges for advertising 6-percent financing loans for
automobile purchases. What did the Federal Trade Com-
mission say to them? It said: "You must not do it; you
must cease and desist from this practice if the true, simple
interest rate is more than 6 percent." Well, it was, and
so they have changed their system.
What about the Federal Housing Administration? I said-
and you will find this on page 1104 of the hearings:
"Mr. Ferguson, what is the true interest rate that is
reflected?"
He said: "The interest rate is 9.72 percent."
Almost 10 percent. But this record, this literature, these
brochures they send out state: "$5 discount per hundred."

JANUARY 16

Suppose you got one of these, what would you think? You
would say: "That is 5 percent"; yet the true interest rate
is 9.72 percent. Do you think that is fair? It seems to me
it is time for the Congress to get busy and make this agency
state the exact fact, because it is absolutely unfair to private
industry to put out that kind of statement. The Federal
Trade Commission makes private industry toe the mark,
yet the Federal Housing Commission goes unchecked. It
would be great fun to sick the Federal Trade Commission
onto the Federal Housing Commission, but, unfortunately,
we cannot do it. It is one of those things where we are
estopped.
It is one of those things where we are estopped, and we
must make the best of it until in their wisdom and in their
good conscience they decide that perhaps they ought to follow
a better line of practice.
Let me allude to one more thing. May I admonish you to
be on the alert about any building program for public build-
ings that may be proposed for the Nation's Capital. They
want a new building for the General Accounting Office.
They are in the process of acquiring land or want to acquire
land to build an annex to the State Department. They also
want a new Economics Building in Washington. They have
gone on laying out a scheme and plan which will obligate the
people of this country for another $40,000,000 of expenditures
in the form of great white stone buildings to grace and adorn
the Nation's Capital. I want my Capital City to be the most
beautiful in the world, but I recognize when we. do it in the
present state of the Budget we are doing it with borrowed
funds. Can we make a real conscientious accounting to the
people of this country by building or undertaking to build or
proposing to build or letting them get ready to build or pro-
pose to build fine buildings aggregating almost $40,000,000 in
Washington when we are still writing the last line of the
Budget in red ink? I merely submit it to you, because some
of these proposals may come along. We must be alert.
Let me finally conclude by expressing my felicitations inas-
much as this is the first appropriation bill, that it comes to
you today $95,000,000, approximately, below the estimate that
was sent up by the Budget Bureau. I think that is a credible
way for the Congress of the United States to start for the
fiscal year 1941. May you be courageous and resolute in the
faith as you walk down Economy Avenue and give the tax-
payers of this country a break. [Applause.]
[Here the gavel fell.]
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from Mississippi [Mr. RANKIN].
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Chairman, it was amazing to me, to
say the least of it, to hear the gentleman from Illinois [Mr.
DIRKSEN] attack the Federal Power Commission for doing its
duty in connection with the Conowingo Dam.
Every time a governmental agency, from the T. V. A. to
the Federal Power Commission, tries to do something to
protect the electric-light and power consumers of America
from ruthless overcharges or to save innocent investors from
exploitation at the hands of the Power Trust, immediately
some old-guard Republican begins to wage an attack on
that agency and to regale the House with repetitions of the
propaganda put out by these special interests.
The gentleman from Illinois [Mr. DIRKSEN] complains that
it has taken the Federal Power Commission so long to
straighten out the Susquehanna Power Co. in connection
with its construction and operation of the Conowingo Dam
on the Susquehanna River near the Maryland-Pennsylvania
line. Under the law it was necessary for the Federal Power
Commission to determine the cost involved in the construc-
tion and operation of this dam in order, among other things,
to determine what are reasonable wholesale rates for the
power that is generated at this dam and as a rule shipped in
interstate commerce.
The delay of which the gentleman complains has been
brought about by the companies themselves. This case,
which, as I said, is to determine the cost involving the Cono-
wingo hydroelectric development on the Susquehanna River
in Pennsylvania and Maryland, which was sponsored and
built by the Philadelphia Electric Co. through its subsidiaries,

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0393.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

came up for hearing In March 1938. The hearing ended
September 20, 1938, and briefs were filed in 1939. Whatever
delay there was in bringing the case to final hearing was
due mainly to the power companies themselves and to the
unnecessary Intricacies and complexities of the corporate
ramifications and other similar arrangements through which
the property connected with this project was acquired and the
project itself constructed and operated-a great and intricate
mesh of camouflage, if you please, to keep the facts concealed
from the American people, and especially from the Federal
Government and from the power consumers in Maryland
and Pennsylvania.
The cost claimed by the power companies in this case was
approximately $55,000,000, of which $38,000,000 was chal-
lenged and put in issue in the case. In other words, the
Government contended that this alleged capital structure of
$55,000,000 contained something like $38,000,000 of wind,
water, or inflated valuations, upon which the people who buy
electricity from this concern or its affiliates are compelled to
pay dividends through exorbitant rates.
The Federal Power Commission undertook to hear this case
as early as 1935, and set the time for hearing for June 4 of
that year. It was continued indefinitely at that time upon
the urgent appeals and petitions of the power companies
themselves. The Commission first denied their petition for
delay, but upon a hearing sought by the power companies,
finally, on May 27, 1935, granted the petition of the power
companies for an indefinite postponement of this cost-deter-
mination hearing. The gentleman from Illinois did not
complain of that delay then; the power companies wanted it.
The Commission had required the power companies to file
their claim-cost statement by December 1, 1933. They did
not file it until March 1, 1934. When it was at last filed, it
consisted of 14 large 'volumes containing 7,718 pages. The
T. V. A. would have made a full and complete report of the
costs of such a project in one booklet of not more than 50 or
100 pages; probably not more than 25 pages.
What if the T. V. A. had filed a report covering the develop-
ments on the whole Tennessee River-not on just one dam-
that filled 14 large volumes of more than 7,000 pages? Every
enemy of the T. V. A., every friend of the Power Trust in this
House, would have raised such a howl of protest as has not
been heard since the fall of the Insull empire.
The underlying records which they asked to be explored in
connection with this claimed cost of $55,000,000, ran more
than 100,000 items, and more than 50,000 vouchers were pre-
sented, each for separate expenditures. I wonder if the gen-
tleman from Illinois [Mr. DIRKSEN] and his associates among
the enemies of the T. V. A. would like to place a burden of
that magnitude upon the General Accounting Office?
Remember that the acquisition of the power companies'
properties and the organizations of the various successive
corporations and groups in connection with this enterprise
extended over a period of more than 20 years preceding the
time of the hearing, and the corporate agencies and other
instrumentalities involved in the acquisition of the property
numbered, in all, at least 25-all sucking money out of the
pockets of the power consumers to pay dividends on the
water in their capital structures and to pay their enormous
overhead expenses. They were scattered throughout Penn-
sylvania and Maryland, with original records difficult to
locate, and in many instances their records were lost or
destroyed.
What a pity we do not have a T. V. A. on the Susquehanna
River.
The investigation which it was necessary for the Federal
Power Commission to make touching the acquisition of prop-
erty, the manipulations of stocks and other transactions, the
costs and profits of predecessor interests and corporations by
these and affiliated groups in order to get the actual, original,
legitimate cost, extended almost back to the turn of the
century. This shows what a stupendous burden is placed
upon the Federal Power Commission when it comes to han-
dling these vast holding companies that serve no useful pur-
pose, but cost the American people-the electric consumers
of the Nation-untold millions of dollars every year.

The investigation of this total claimed cost of $55,000,000,
of which the Commission challenged $38,000,000, was ren-
dered more appallingly complex and difficult by reason of the
circuitous and intermingled-and I might say intangible, if
not incoherent or fictitious-transactions and dealings of the
power companies, their affiliates, and their predecessors in
interest, and by the unnecessarily intricate and involved cor-
porate structures set up by these companies to handle and
construct the project, and to furnish a ready means and a
handy manner for fortifying their excessive claims of capital
costs and making it as difficult as possible for the Federal
Power Commission or any other Government agency to get
the facts.
It was also necessary for the Commission to carry on exten-
sive investigations through the records of other corporations
and interests which were brought into the picture by the
power companies, including an astonishing number of out-
side experts whose services were supposed to be retained at
cost, the very staggering amount of which cried out for
investigation.
The final hearing began in March 1938, and almost im-
mediately the power companies again moved for an indefinite
recess. It was clear that the power companies had not come
to Washington intending to try the case even at that late
date. They were manifestly expecting to secure further de-
lay. The representatives of the Power Commission in charge
of the hearing, however, pressed the matter and managed to
make progress. There were constant requests from the power
companies for delay and for reducing the number of hours
to be utilized by the hearing each week. There were requests
for recesses and constant complaints on the part of the power
companies that the hearings were being held in a manner
too exhausting physically for the ones engaged in it. They
said there was a limit to the amount of such labor human
beings could endure. They had, perhaps, exhausted them-
selves compiling those 14 volumes of alleged cost reports.
In May 1938 an extended recess was at last granted at the
pressing insistence of the power companies themselves. The
hearing reconvened in midsummer, and the same tactics of
obstruction and delay were employed by the power companies.
Examinations and cross-examination of witnesses were un-
duly and unnecessarily prolonged. A multitude of petty and
unimportant objections followed each other in quick and
regular order. The representatives of the Power Commission
in charge of the hearing, however, pressed forward and man-'
aged to keep the hearing going, over loud protests and com-
plaints from the representatives of the power companies.
The hearing was concluded September 20, 1938. There
then ensued several months of delay in "correcting" the
record, for which delay the power companies were principally
responsible. There next followed applications on the part of
the power companies for extensions of the time allowed for
the filing of briefs. Briefs were filed in 1939. Throughout
the entire proceedings the Commission has been diligent,
earnest, and constant in attention to the case and in pressing
it toward completion with all the speed that the importance
of the matter and the complexity of its involvements would
permit.
The challenged items to be dealt with run into the thou-
sands. There are approximately 9,000 pages of the latest
transcript, exclusive of the first hearing held before the Fed-
eral Power Commission and the hearings held before the
State commissions of Pennsylvania and Maryland; and, ac-
cording to the briefs of the power companies, there are in the
record of the last hearing more than 14,000 pages of exhibits,
not to speak of the printed volumes, maps, and so forth, in
evidence-which probably run to as many as 50 volumes,
many of which comprise several hundred pages.
The tactics of the power companies from the beginning
have been to delay the final determination of fixed capital
costs and to burden the Power Commission to death with a
cumbersome record. With $38,000,000 of their total claimed
cost of $55,000,000 challenged, they have never displayed any
anxiety to reach a final determination of the matter. The
efforts made to press the matter to a conclusion have all been
on the part of the Commission and its staff.

1940

393



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0394.txt

394

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

The power companies are demanding that the several thou-
sand items In controversy in this case be separately consid-
ered and determined, each on the basis of what they term
"its own facts"; almost every challenged item to constitute
a separate problem within itself. There are 50,000 vouchers,
each representing separate expenditures, in evidence. The
challenged total of $38,000,000 does not by any means paint
for the mind a complete picture of the gigantic task with
which the Commission is confronted in this case.
To appreciate the task one would have to be familiar with
and consider the many persons, corporations, groups, and
interests who, since almost as far back as the turn of the cen-
tury, have been interested in and have busied themselves for
their own profit at different times in getting the Conowingo
properties together and in "promoting" the project. It has
been alleged that all of these different interests through 30
years were in the end "well taken care of" by the power com-
panies who finally put all the properties together in one proj-
ect, and that an effort has been made in this case to saddle
not only all the cost incurred by all these corporations, in-
terests, and groups upon the project's capital costs but also the
fat profits and payments and rake-offs by which they were all
finally "cared for."
Nothing should be permitted to interfere with the Commis-
sion's thorough consideration and development of the true
facts in this case or with its determination to see to it that
nothing but the actual, legitimate costs of the project shall
be put into its fixed capital structure for purpose of its rate
base and the price of recapture. The Commission has been
more than fair to the power companies throughout the whole
proceedings. The members of its hearing staff were careful to
accord every requisite of complete fairness and due process.
They acceded time and time again to the requests of the
power companies for time and gave them every opportunity to
establish their claimed costs. Now, in order to reach a just
conclusion, the Commission intends to consider the evidence
adduced and developed through the investigations of the gro-
tesquely elaborate, involved, and top-heavy corporate and
intercorporate set-ups and arrangements and the intricate
dealings and circuitous trades of the past 30 years, by means
of which the staggering claimed cost total of $55,000,000 was
built up by the power companies and their predecessors,
affiliates, and associates.
This is more or less a test case. Every one of the 27,000,000
light and power consumers throughout the country are vitally
interested in the outcome.
These attacks on the Federal Power Commission and the
T. V. A. all seem to be inspired by the same influences and
designed to impede the administration in its efforts to pro-
tect the ultimate consumers of electric lights and power from
the exorbitant overcharges now being imposed.
Since 1933 the Federal Power Commission has intensified
its efforts to save the water power of the Nation and to pro-
tect the American consumers of electric energy. Under the
power which Congress gave it in 1935 to collect and publish
light and power rates throughout the Nation, it has given
information that, together with the example set by the
T. V. A., along with the other power policies of the adminis-
tration, has already reduced the rates to the electric light and
power consumers of this country more than $583,000,000 a
year.
It has been stated here by enemies of the T. V. A. that the
entire cost of that development would ultimately reach $535,-
000,000. Yet these reductions in light and power rates of
$583,000,000 a year amount to $48,000,000 more than the entire
cost. of the T. V. A., including all its dams and transmission
lines, to say nothing of the benefits of flood control, naviga-
tion, soil conservation, and so forth. This reduction in rates
in 1 year is more than 200 times the amount appropriated in
this bill for the Federal Power Commission.
If we were to make no further reductions, and the con-
sumption of electricity remained as it is today, the American
people would save in 10 years $5,830,000,000; and if we can
get these rates reduced to the proper levels all over the
country, we can save enough in a few years to pay off the
national debt. Although we have reduced light and power

JANUARY 16.

rates to this extent, the record shows that in 1938 the Ameri-
can people were still overcharged $889,392,747, according to
the T. V. A. rates; and $1,007,156,359, according to the
Ontario rates; and that the people of Maryland were over-
charged $13,191,408; and the people of Pennsylvania, $72,513,-
570, according to the T. V. A. rates. These are the two States
that use practically all the power generated at the Conowingo
Dam. It is distributed through the Philadelphia Electric Co.,
and could be distributed at the T. V. A. yardstick rates with-
out loss to legitimate investors.
Last year that company purchased 1,299,138,369 kilowatt-
hours of electricity produced at the Conowingo Dam at an
average of 3.34 mills a kilowatt-hour, which is cheaper than
any of the cities, towns, or cooperative associations pur-
chased power wholesale from the T. V. A. This power could
have been distributed at the T. V. A. yardstick rates to the
people of both Maryland and Pennsylvania and still yielded
a reasonable return on the legitimate investments.
Other companies in these States could also reduce their
charges to the T. V. A. yardstick rates and make money on
their legitimate investments. If that were done, as I said,
it would save the power consumers of Maryland more than
$13,000,000 a year, and the people of Pennsylvania more than
$72,000,000 a year.
Although the rates have been reduced to the people in these
States since the creation of the T. V. A. in 1933 by more
than $8,000,000 a year in Maryland, and more than $56,000,-
000 a year in Pennsylvania, still the people of Maryland are
overcharged more than $13,000,000 a year, and the people
of Pennsylvania are overcharged more than $72,000,000 a
year.
And I might say to the gentleman from Illinois [Mr. DIRK-
SEN] that in 1938 the people of Illinois used 6,936,786,000
kilowatt-hours of electric energy, for which they paid $161,-
177,634. Under the T. V. A. rates the cost would have been
$91,262,377, which showed an overcharge of $69,915,257,
according to the T. V. A. rates. If the people of Illinois had
paid the same rates in 1938 they paid in 1934, the year the
T. V. A. was put into operation, the cost would have been
a little above $264,000,000, or $56,000,000 more than they
actually paid, and $173,000,000 more than they would have
paid under the T. V. A. rates.
So it will be seen that while we have a long way to go yet
in bringing justice to the light and power consumers of Illi-
nois, still we have reduced their rates since the T. V. A. was
created by more than $56,000,000 a year.
I know the gentlemen will probably say that these over-
charges of $69,000,000 a year are absorbed in taxes, but the
record shows that the private power companies in Illinois pay
in taxes, cash contributions, and free services only about
$25,000,000 a year, which amount taken from this overcharge
would still leave a net overcharge of $44,000,000 a year for
which the people of Illinois get absolutely nothing in return.
In addition to compelling these private companies that
have dams on our navigable streams, or who ship power in
interstate commerce, to show their legitimate investments,
and in that way squeezing the water out of their inflated
valuations, the Federal Power Commission is rendering one of
the greatest services that ever came to the people of this
country by compiling and publishing the electric rates
charged by both private and public power systems in every
city, town, and community in America.
Anybody who desires to do so can write the Federal Power
Commission and for a small compensation, of probably 10
cents each, secure these reports on each and every State in
the Union. Then he can make his own comparisons.
I have on my desk at this moment a volume compiled by
the Federal Power Commission known as the National Elec-
tric Rate Book, that covers every single State in the Union
and shows the rates charged in every community. This vol-
ume is worth its weight in diamonds to the power consumers
of America, for the reason that it provides that deadly paral-
lel that all the Power Trust propaganda or inspired oratory
-cannot answer. I have introduced a resolution to have this
volume made a House document in order that every Member
may secure a few copies for his own use and distribution to



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0395.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

those communities in his district that are vitally interested in
this question.
If the Federal Power Commission never did anything else
than to gather and publish these rates and compile this rate
book it would not only have justified its existence throughout
all the years to come but would have saved the American con-
sumers of electric energy hundreds of millions, if not billions,
of dollars, that would have otherwise been wrung from them
through exorbitant overcharges
So, Mr. Chairman, instead of criticizing the Federal Power
Commission for doing its duty, I submit that the gentleman
from Illinois should be offering thanks for the protection
the Commission has offered the power consumers of the
Nation, and especially of his own State.
Instead of criticizing the Federal Power Commission for
doing its duty and attempting so to limit its funds as to
render it impossible for it to carry on this great work, we
should be applauding it and providing it with whatever
amounts are necessary to enable it to perform these arduous
tasks.
The electric business is a public business and must be pub-
licly regulated or publicly owned, if the people are to be
protected. If regulation continues to fail, then the whole
country will swing to public ownership of power facilities-
and the sooner they come to that conclusion the sooner we
will be able to lift this burden of a billion dollars in annual
overcharges for electric lights and power from the backs of
the American people.
It has been universally recognized, ever since the estab-
lishment of the rule of Hale in England, that privately
owned utility companies are "affected with a public interest"
and cease to remain in the classification of ordinary private
business. The very nature of the electric business imposes a
high degree of public interest and, as I said, makes it a
public business.
Following the celebrated Granger case of 1877-Munn
against Illinois-the various States attempted to assume their
sovereignty over this type of corporations. At first the States
delegated their sovereign authority to their lesser subdi-
visions. Evils of great proportions then became a part of the
system until exposed in the Hughes investigation of 1905.
Aroused public opinion forced a change from the older
order. Out of the revelation came regulation by commis-
sions. The Federal Trade Commission investigation of 1927
to 1933 disclosed voluminous evidences of fraud, political
manipulation, and corruption, culminating in the fall of the
Insull empire in Illinois.
Congress then attempted to curb these forces of evil
through the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Holding Company Acts. Late evidences definitely demon-
strate the fact that these forces still ride on. Congress has
not accomplished the results intended.
In the midst of world-wide disorders, democracy must take
stock. To survive it is necessary for us to drive the lepers
from control within the body politic-both State and National.
The Department of Justice has lately concentrated its ac-
tivities on corrupt politicians. These efforts are to be com-
mended; but they do not reach the roots of the trouble. We
must reach and punish the moneyed interests behind the
alliance of politics and corruption. Public exposure is the
first step in the process of driving out these lepers.
After the Federal Trade Commission's investigation the
leaders of the Power Trust solemnly promised the American
people that they would desist from their evil practices. But
they have not kept the faith; in fact, their evil practices have
been on the increase. Now is the time to call a halt.
You cannot place a veil of sanctity over these offenders by
campaign contributions.
The refusal of the Securities and Exchange Commission to
permit the $8,000,000,000 Associated Gas & Electric system to
make dividend payments out of its capital has resulted in that
vast holding company filing a bankruptcy petition. This in-
tricate system, with a capital debt of nearly $700 per con-
sumer, or about three or four times what it is actually worth,
has been one of the worst offenders. This superholding com-
pany, operating in 23 States, has a highly intricate financial

set-up. With all due respect to our Federal courts and the
Department of Justice, it would be practically impossible for
them alone to unravel the maze of book entries created by
this huge octopus. Neither agency has the facilities to reach
and point out the real facts. They need highly skilled
assistance.
In New York State, for example, the Associated Gas & Elec-
tric system has 73,000 kilowatts of hydro power. This hydro
power, from water belonging to all our people, has been used
to extort revenues, through exorbitant electric rates, which
revenues have in part been used to make political contribu-
tions or to corrupt public officials.
We have read recently in the Washington papers that the
president of the local electric company was transferred to the
Union Electric Co. of Missouri and Illinois to relieve the
malodorous situation created by the charges of the St. Louis
papers that the company officials were engaged in corrupting
practices. The Securities and Exchange Commission was
supposed to investigate this situation, but the real facts, as
far as I know, have not reached the public. There is no
reason for suppressing the facts or allowing these culprits to
go unpunished.
No wonder the power consumers are overcharged $69,000,000
a year in Illinois, $14,000,000 a year in Iowa, and $21,000,000
a year in Missouri.
The Union Electric, a subsidiary of the North American Co.,
receives a substantial part of its electric energy from hydro
plants located on the Mississippi at Keokuk, and on the Osage
public power that should be used for the benefit of the people
of that area. Technical assistance is needed to unravel the
facts as to the company's investments, expenditures, political
payments, and activities.
The North American Co. has also subsidiaries operating in
Illinois and Missouri, which have been charged with engaging
in atrocious political activities. The corrupting influences of
the lobbies maintained by these companies in the State capi-
tals is said to bz beyond comprehension. Nearly a year ago
in a speech here in the House I called attention to some of
these activities, but they still go on. The Missouri Power &
Light Co. receives a substantial part of its current from the
Keokuk Mississippi Power's hydro plant. The Illinois-Iowa
Power Co. has a hydro plant on the Illinois River at Mar-
seilles, Ill., using Federal water, and also transmitting power
from the Keokuk Dam in interstate commerce. I am firmly
convinced that a thoroughgoing investigation will disclose
wholesale corruption of public officials by the officials of these
two companies, which are tied together by a subholding com-
pany, the North American Power Co.
To bring such activities to light, and to focus public atten-
tion, I propose a thorough investigation of these companies.
I also propose to do my best to see that before the demands
of the State of Illinois for increased deliveries of water from
Lake Michigan are given consideration, the beneficiaries of
this water power desist from their evil and corrupting prac-
tices and operate within the letter and the spirit of the law.
Regulation cannot be made effective until these vicious activi-
ties on the part of the Power Trust are stopped.
I am convinced that a thoroughgoing investigation of these
four companies will reveal startling conditions. To allow
such practices to continue unchecked is dangerous to our
national security.
These are matters to be handled by the Federal Power
Commission. So, instead of attempting to hamper the Com-
mission by legislative penury or carping criticisms, we should
let the world know that in these attempts to protect the elec-
tric consumers of the country the Commission has the en-
thusiastic backing and support of the Congress of the United
States.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to
the gentleman from Texas [Mr. LANHAM].
Mr. LANHAM. Mr. Chairman, we have been listening to
some interesting and able arguments with reference to govern-
mental economy. For a few moments I wish to divert our
attention to an outstanding instance of individual economy.
It is an old saying and a true one that example is better than
precept.

1940



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0396.txt

396

I think this is the first time during my service in the House
that I have appeared on the floor with an article of exhibit,
but in these days when so little accent is being placed on
thrift and personal -industry it seems proper to present this
object lesson for its value in inspiration. Mr. Ripley thought
it of sufficient importance to include it in his Believe It or Not.
In its implications it carries us back to the spirit of the
pioneers who made this country, a spirit that likely must be
revived and renewed for the permanent preservation of this
country.
There lives in my native city of Weatherford, Tex., Mr. G. A.
Holland, a distinguished gentleman who on the 12th day of
this month passed the eighty-first anniversary of his birth.
It has been my privilege and pleasure to know him since my
boyhood. He has served as president of a national bank in
that city, was for many years its mayor, and for a quarter of
a century the chairman of its school board. He has devoted a
great deal of time to research and has preserved in a volume
which he wrote and published the history of the pioneers who
developed that section. He has equipped a most interesting
museum which is keeping for posterity many historic relics
of important significance.
These statements give briefly the background of explanation
of the instance of unusual thrift to which I would call your
attention. Mr. Holland has sent to me for presentation some
homespun cotton towels of his own making. He wishes one
presented to the wife of the President, one to the wife of the
Vice President, and one to the wife of the Speaker. This
statement of itself does not disclose the significance of these
gifts or impress properly the lesson they involve. What I
wish specially, to call to your attention as an example of indi-
vidual American industry are the facts that they were made
after Mr. Holland had passed his eightieth birthday, that the
most primitive methods were used, that they are the prod-
ucts of one man's effort, and that each was completed from
the picking of the cotton in the field to the weaving of the
fabric during the daylight hours of a single day. With his
own hands he picked the cotton, with his own fingers he sepa-
rated the lint from the seed, washed and cleaned the lint,
carded it, spun it into thread, and wove it into a towel. He
used the old spinning wheel and loom which his mother had
operated in the early days of his youth.
Though an octogenarian, he is active and vigorous as a civic
leader and presenting daily his fine example of self-reliant
Americanism.
Is it not well to pause for a moment in these times in which
we live to contemplate this splendid exemplification of the
spirit that has made America great? Surely it should prove
inspirational to the youth of our country. All our ills cannot
be cured by legislation, but they can be cured if as a people
we shal practice those time-honored traits of thrift and indi-
vidual industry which have yielded us the civilization of a
glorious democracy. [Applause.)
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 20 minutes to
the gentleman from New York [Mr. DICKSTEIN].
Mr. DICKSTEIN. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to make a
very important observation on the most important issue with
which the country is confronted today.
In the first place, I want to pay a great tribute of respect
to J. Edgar Hoover, head of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, and the men who work under him. They have done
a fine job in picking up a number of men, although the
number now is small, of the so-called Christian Front.
Some Members may think this is only a minor matter and
does not amount to very much, but I assure you, as I have in
the past, that when the whole story behind the arrest of these
men will be told there will be an expos6 of this so-called
Christian Front and the Christian Mobilizers and other hood-
lums that will startle the country.
I do not want to go too far back, but in the last 6 or 8 or 10
months every Congressman has been buttonholed to find out
whether or not he is going to support the Dies committee;
in fact, the newspapers have got some of the Congressmen
afraid to say "no."
Anything I may say here is not personal. It Is not in the
form of criticism but in the form of constructive advice, as

JANUARY 16

I have tried to give on previous occasions, but which the com-
mittee so far has not followed. I want to tell you now that
I know something about this subject. Not alone was I re-
sponsible for the original McCormack committee, going way
back to 1934, but I tried in vain to restore the McCormack
committee in 1937, when some of the gentlemen on this floor
on both sides ridiculed the proposition that un-Americanism
existed in the United States. Some of them got up and
cracked jokes about our looking for Nazis and Communists
under the bed. I wish you would read the RECORD of April 8,
1937, and compare it with what we are asked to do now.
I could not get anywhere then. Thirty-nine Members stood
up for my resolution for the continuation of the McCormack
committee at that time, and the rest of the Members sort of
joked about the whole matter.
When conditions were becoming worse and our form of
government was being undermined every day, I alone stood
in the Well of this House and protested against the activities
and propaganda of foreign agents, including Communists and
Nazis. No; since my name was DICKSTEIN-now, take it for
what it is worth-I could not seem to get the support of the
Congress.
I drew a new resolution, which you are now sucking like a
lollipop, to create the Dies committee. I drew that resolution
and myself appeared before the Committee on Rules without
any help from anybody. I fought for that resolution in the
Rules Committee when I presented documentary proof of un-
Americanism and the activity of foreign agents. I told you
2 or 3 years ago that there were hundreds of spies in this
country. I have told you of propaganda material that is
being transported from foreign shores to this country which is
definitely not for the best interest of this country, and I have
been ridiculed. Lo and behold! we passed the Dies resolution.
I was not on the committee and I am not sore about it, and I
do not want anyone to tell me I am making this speech just
because I am not on the committee. More power to the Dies
committee. They have done a good job to a certain extent,
but they have not done the job the people expected them to do.
The gentleman from Massachusetts, JOHN MCCORMACK, who
was chairman of the original committee, would not have
dared to issue statements attacking any individual or persons
without having definite proof or positive evidence. The gen-
tleman from   Massachusetts, JOHN MCCORMACK, would not
