tion (and, as James Reston notes, a "son
of the old agrarian reformers") he is deeply
concerned with the need for economic re-
form and the plight of the minority of Amer-
icans who have not shared in the booming
prosperity of the past decade. At a time
when the majority is well-fed and com-
placent, this is not a popular theme.
But however much HUMPHREY may seem
to be out of step with the prevailing mood
of complacency, there can be no doubt that
his fbrthrightness and his remarkable famil-
iarity with the issues would make him sin-
gularly well equipped for a rough-and-tum-
ble campaign of the sort that the Nixon
candidacy will probably impose on the Dem-
ocrats. As "T.R.B." put it in a recent issue
of The New Republic: "He would not ap-
proach such a fracas reluctantly nor as a
martyr. His eyes glitter at the possibility:
frankly he would love it. It would be the
bare knuckle battle of the century."
And it is not at all impossible that in the
course of such a battle the voters might be
jolted out of their complacency, might be
made to see the size of the public needs con-
fronting us, might indeed be persuaded that
a thaw is not permanent peace and that
chromium prosperity can look pretty shabby
in a world where hunger and grinding pov-
erty are still the lot of most. It may be only
a dim possibility, but it is not one that the
Democratic politicians should dismiss out of
hand.

3RESSIONAL RECORD - APPE)s
The Poland I Saw
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
or
HON. ALVIN M. BENTLEY
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 18, 1960
Mr. BENTLEY. Mr. Speaker, under
leave to extend my remarks in the
RECORD, I include an article which ap-
peared in the November 14, 1959, issue of
the Saturday Evening Post. "The Poland
I Saw" is a revealing, inside story of the
tragic plight of the Polish people and
bears out the harsh truth that, even
though this country has achieved more
freedom and independence than any of
the other Iron Curtain countries, she is
still very much under the yoke of Com-
munist oppression.
The article follows:
THE POLAN I SAW
(By Greta Van Dyke Turska)
When I ended my last visit to Poland I
was in tears and could not stop crying-but
I clutched in my pocket a few Polish beans.
Those beans grew strong and all in the small
garden behind my house this last summer
as a talisman for the family I had left be-
hind-and especially for my brother-in-law,
Stefan, who sent the beans to free soil be-
cause he never expected to reach it himself.
He thought that if the beans could get to the
free soil of America--and if the outside world
even knew anything about how ordinary
people exist in a Communist country-some-
how there still might be some chance for
those people, in spite of all the indications.
The later visit of Vice President RICHARD
NIXON to Warsaw obviously aroused some
similar belief in the shouting thousands who
greeted him and reaffirmed the affection of
Polish people for America. Stefan wrote to
me shortly afterward. Most of his letter con-
cerned family affairs: the drafting of his son
into the Polish Army despite poor health; the
failure of my letters and packages to get
through, although I send mail and small
amounts of money weekly.
But he also wrote: "About the politics, we
are so happy that yesterday your Vice Presi-
dent arrived in Warsaw. Now I have hope
that a change will come. He visited the
places of murder and said we never again
should permit conflict of that nature. * * *
How wonderfully he talked about our uni-'
versities. * * * Now I close. I am very tired
and cannot go on."
I know Mt. Nixon did not see Stefan, who
was working in Gdynia and was much too
sick and to6 poor to have gone to Warsaw;
but I can hope that he had a chance to look
beyond the expectant faces of the crowds
to the thousands of people like Stefan, to
see a little of the hopelessness which is worse
than their broken shoes; their constant fear;
the galling bitterness they express in two
words-"our friends"-while never mention-
ing the Russians by name. I hope he saw
a little of it and remembered- it as I do,
I have been to Poland twice. The first
trip was in 1932, with my Polish-born hus-
band, John, a veteran of the U.S. Army in
World War I, and our small daughter. I
myself was born in Stettin (then in Ger-
many), but came to the United States in
1920.

IDIX                                  A369
I shall not forget that first trip. Poland
was like a little fairy country, John's home
village so beautiful that I wanted to paint
the old church on a hill, the houses scattered
below It. The church organ still was played
by a man Who had been John's teacher.
The village had only a single water well, but
people sang as they carried big wooden buck-
ets to it. In the evenings folk singers sere-
naded us because we were visitors; and now
and again the church bells pealed in the
cold air.
John had eight brothers and sisters still
In Poland, five in America. His old father,
Joseph, greeted me as a daughter. Because
one relative was a navy officer, we were in-
vited to an admiral's ball in Gdynia; and.
the admiral chose me as his partner for the
first dance. Christmas was a joyful holiday,
filled with celebrations and with all the
food a bountiful country could provide.
Open markets were in every town-live fowls
In cages, produce spread on the ground,
pickled fruits, cakes and huge Polish hams
for sale. Our Christmas table included a
goose and roasts of veal; and hot holiday
breads came from the tile ovens in every
house. My husband's people had trouble
finding a dowry for their last daughter; but
they were healthy, happy and thankful for
their blessings. Of them all, Stefan was the
most gay, proud of his Polish Air Force uni-
form, strong and confident.
Only once was there a jarring note; the
radio blaring some announcement about
Adolf Hitler. Then Stefan's face darkened
and under his breath he said two words,
"psia krew" (dog's blood).     For a while
they all were quiet; but then the laughter
and singing began again.
This was the Poland I first knew: a quiet
village, a gay port city, a 'happy family.
Until 1939 I corresponded irregularly with
Stefan, he testing his German, I trying a
few words of Polish. Then there. was no
word during the war, only a brief relayed
message shortly after the peace: if we could
send medicines through the Red Cross, lives
of two sisters might be saved. Then more
silence. My husband died; but I did not
know whether the family in Poland received
the news, or whether there still was a family
in Poland. My letters were not answered
and not returned.
I don't know just when I decided that I
must go there again. But I began saving a
little each week from wages I earned in a
9epartment store, and traveled by tour-
ist-class ship to West Germany in 1955,
flying to Berlin. The East German Com-
munist Government gave me a four-day
pass; but at a border station within Ber-
lin a female customs guard forced me to
strip while all my clothes were examined.
Streets beyond the border still were lit-
tered with rubble; beggars followed me
everywhere, and I could not even find the
station for a railroad which might have
taken me to the part of Stettin still under
German    control, and-I     hoped-to    Po-
land.   Completely   unnerved   and   fright-
ened after only 4 hours, I retreated to
,West Berlin. In Witten and Aachen, West
Germany, I found two of John's sisters.
Both families had come to Germany after
Poland's defeat in 1939, and the husbands
had spent the rest of the war working in
coal mines. But each sister had the same
story, "We never hear from Poland. We
don't know whether any of the family is
still alive."
I was out of money and had failed com-
pletely. So I returned to the United States
and my job. Two weeks later the first letter



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0370.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - APPENDIX

January 18

In more than 15 years arrived from Po-
land. In it Stefan wrote: "Those of us still
here are anxious to see you. We hear
nothing. Is it possible that you still are
alive? Will you ever again come to Europe?
Why do you never write?"
I wrote to him-and again began saving
my money, earning n little extra by doing
housework for other people during my spare
time. In three years I had enough-just
barely. By 1958 restrictions on travel di-
rectly to Poland had been eased. I obtained
a 16-day visa by sending the Polish con-
sulate $120-$7.50 for each day I would be
in the country. In return they sent me the
necessary state-travel-agency coupons to be
exchanged for zlotys in Poland or used for
hotel bills. I took cheap tranportation to
Europe. From Amsterdam I wrote Stefan
that I would be in Poland in 2 weeks.
There was no answer, but I boarded a Dutch
airliner anyhow. This landed me on the cold
Warsaw airport on November 4.
I expected another disrobing demand, as
in East Berlin, but there was none. After
45 minutes I was called       into  the cus-
toms office, where all my possessions were
listed, to be checked against what I might
take out later. Then I was directed to an-
other room to have my Orbis coupons ex-
changed. Here hollow-eyed people in shabby
dress were all around; but it was minutes
before I recognized one sick-looking, old-
looking man, hardly more than a skeleton,
as Stefan, who had been so strong and so gay.
When at last I was free of the officials,
Steffan fell on his knees and kissed my
hands, weeping. He had stood in the aisles
of a train for 8 hours in order to meet me.
Slowly we walked out, trying in a few min-
utes to wipe out the strangeness of 25 years.
In a 1930-model taxi with flapping side
curtains, we bumped over rutted streets to
a building where an American serviceman
stood on guard, barring the way to Stefan,
although he admitted me. When I came
out, after completing papers in the U.S. Em-
bassy, Stefan still was staring at the Ameri-
can flag above the door. He 'whispered, "I
have never been so close to American free-
dom before."
In the same weary taxi we rode to a rail-
road station. New recruits were being sent
to army  rainng camps-thin, underfed boys.
Waiting, some sang sad, chanting folk tunes;
and all around were the bitter faces of their
families, ragged, hungry, and dirty. I sat
on my luggage while Stefan went to buy
tickets for the Gdynia train, and the people
stared at my clothes, my shoes, everything.
The cold was intense, but the air was foul.
I was sure I was having a nightmare.
Finally, a   train  arrived.  We    pushed
through the crowd to a first-class compart-
ment; but 16 people already were in it, with
bundles and rotting suitcases filling the lug-
gage racks. There were no seats for us until
one young man gave me his place. I piled
all the luggage I could hold on my lap, while
Stefan continued to stand, holding other
bags. Outside in the train corridor, the
army recruits stood or sat on the floor. No
one talked. There was no dining car, but
I had a sack filled with white bread, butter,
meat, cake, fruits, and chocolate I had
bought in Holland. After a long time, I
offered some of this food to Stefan.
In German he asked, "What about the
others?"
I'd bought this food for the family, so I
hesitated; but a murmur rose all around
me: Food, food, food. Where did it come
from?   How much does it cost? Does every-
one in America have this sort of food? Quite
suddenly faces which had been wooden were
animated and curious. I could not resist.
As I passed bits of food to one after another,
the compartment buzzed with more in-
quiries: What was happening in the West?

How was the United States? The train
swayed through flat country, stopping at
windy stations, while I was battered with
questions.
I tried to tell them how an American family
lives-the food, the medicines, the freedom.
Some things they had not laeard about; some
they did not believe. They changed places
so that each could sit next to me briefly and
ask questions. My food bag presently was
empty, but I did not care. The train stopped
again to disgorge the recruits, and some peo-
ple left the compartment-but kissed my
hand. One old man-he looked 80, but I
could not judge these people with their
pinched   faces  and   rotted  teeth-whis-
pered  a parting question, "Does anyone
care about us?"
For this I had no answer.
Only three of us now remained. Stefan
.rollapsed beside me. Across the aisle, the
one other man watched us thoughtfully.
Middle-aged and Russian, he was better off
than most Poles in that he did have an over-
coat, although his clothing and his briefcase
were shabby. He said he was from Moscow,
going to a conference in Poznan. "All those
things you told the Poles about life in Amer-
ica," he asked suddenly. "Were they really
true? I can hardly believe-"
I said I was a working woman and that
I had no reasSpn to lie. Oddly, he appeared
convinced by these simple statements. He
noticed that I was shivering with cold and
fatigue and he said, "Come over to this bench
and lie down. I will sit with the man." I
did so, and he spread his heavy overcoat
over me. After 8 hours we struggled off the
train at Gdynia. I shook hands with the
Russian, but neither of us said anything. He
was a gentleman, and he believed me.
My nephew, Boleslaw, was waiting. A tall
very thin boy of 20, he had dark circles under
his shy eyes, and horrible boils on his face
and hands. My surprise must have showed,
because he spoke immediately in English,
"Yes, Auntie, Boleslaw hungry, sick, tired,
not want to live. Mother and father give me
their piece of bread and extra potato, but
Boleslaw always hungry."
Stefan's apartment was one of four-with
a single set of plumbing-on the third floor
of a walk-up apartment house. Janina, my
sister-in-law, stood on the landing, shouting,
"You made it! You made it! God be praised
that he let you come so far. Come in, please,
and let us realize that it is not a dream."
I climbed to a dark hallway. On one side
was a kitchen, on the other a room where the
three slept-and beside this, another very
small room where one more man stayed,
keeping a violoncello beside him. In time
I learned that he was a Hungarian refugee,
once well-to-do, now destitute, with nothing
but the clothes on his back and the cello
which he had dragged, somehow, when he
fled Hungary. What this man ate I never
learned. He must have represented great
danger to Stefan; but they did not ask him
to leave nor ever explain, entirely, why he
was there. To me he said one thing of im-
portance. "Go back to America and tell
someone. Tell t1em how we live; tell them
about these Russians. They are glad if we
just die."
Stefan suggested that the three members
of his family could sleep In one bed and I
could have the other in their bedroom. But
I chose chairs and a bench drawn together
in the kitchen, with a feather bed to serve
both as mattress and cover.
Quickly the family story was told. By 1939
Stefan was only a reserve officer and he never
had reached his air-force unit during the
brief and confused Polish resistance to Ger-
many. When the Germans came to Gdynia,
he had refused to swear allegiance and had
been sent to a concentration camp in Pomer-
ania, along with a younger relative. Miracu-

lously both had survived, but Stefan never
would discuss the terrible scars on his legs.
World War II had been even worse for
others. The naval officer in the family had
been killed.   The admiral with whom       I
danced had gone down in a submarine. One
sister-in-law, seeking to save her children
by sending them away, had watched while
their ship pulled out of the harbor, only to
strike a mine and go down with all hands.
John's mother had died early In the war;
but Joseph, the old father, had survived, only
to die of food poisoning in the early peace,
when no one could afford to worry about
whether food was entirely fresh. The two
sisters, for whom we had sent medicines,
nevertheless had succumbed to tuberculosis.
While Stefan told me these things, Boleslaw
stood by the door, watching down the hall.
Stefan explained, "You never know who may
be coming." He said the city had been full
of Russians Immediately after the war, and
Janina had worn a pillow inside her dress
to feign pregnancy and avoid rape. Gradu.
ally the Russians had restored discipline; and
many had departed. But since protest dem-
onstrations in Poznan and the Hungarian
revolution, Gdynia again was filled with
Russian soldiers-big, well-fed men, their
fine boots and uniforms contrasting sharply
with the shoddy equipment of the Polish
soldiers, who looked only like sick men ex-
pecting to be slaughtered.
A woman member of the people's police
had been quartered on the ground floor
of the apartment house, beginning Just be-
fore my arrival-for what reason, no one ap-
peared to know. When I presented my pass-
port to her, as required, she spoke perfect
English, but did not bother to ask me any
questions-only kept the passport overnight.
Possibly she knew the answers in advance.
Before each apartment door was a small
pile of bricks and mortar. Janina explained,
"It is an order. We are to put the bricks
Into each firebox of our stoves, to make it
smaller by half. But Stefan managed to have
the installing delayed until after you leave."
The family had a cooking range in the
kitchen and a ceiling-high tile heating stove
in the bedroom; but they were allowed to buy
only one small bucket of coal daily and had
to haul that up the stairs. This barely heat-
ed the food, and tiles of the bedroom stove
seldom were even warm in near-zero weather.
Sadly used to this, the Poles wore most of
the clothes they owned-ragged sweaters over
ragged shirts, two pairs of trousers, the lucky
few with overcoats on top of everything.
Gdynia, incidentally, is a coal-shipping
port; and many of the 90 cranes on the
waterfront are used to load it. Stefan was
assigned to dock work, although by civilian
trade he had been a cabinetmaker. He told
me that while the city shivered, Russians
were storing tons and tons of coal under-
water in artificial lakes; and that Russian
ships had made off with American wheat
sent to Gdynia for the relief of Poland.
Russians, he said, substituted weevily wheat
of their own in the relief supplies, then told
the Poles it was the best America could
produce.
Both Boleslaw and Stefan worked, but
brought home only about 2,400 zlotys a
month-the equivalent of about $24 at the
black market rate of exchange. This had to
cover rent, coal, transportation, and meals,
which ordinarily consisted of bread, potatoes,
and tea or coffee substitute, with fish per-
haps once a week. Real coffee was $16 a
pound, and the famous open markets offered
nothing appetizing. One which I visited con-
tained only a handful of peddlers offering
live fish, chunks of pork meat set out in the
open, soggy bread, undersized potatoes and 8
few onions. Butter was absent, milk un-
pasteurized, and soap missing. At 20, Bole-
slaw could not remember tasting an orange

A370



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0371.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - APPENDIX

or a banana. Stubbornly I hunted a lemon
for days but never found one.
After one frustrating visit to a market
Stefan said, "Why bother? Let's just buy a
herring and eat it raw."
Butter, some meat and Polish money, how-
ever, could be obtained on the black market.
Although 24 to 1 was the legal monetary ex-
change rate, 100 or even 120 zlotys could be
obtained for American dollars in large de-
nominations. Traders sometimes were shoe-
makers, sometimes tailors or seamen, operat-
Ing on the street or on the waterfr6nt. The
same man never appeared twice, and the
rendezvous always was changed-but always
there was someone ready to sell Polish money.
Vodka and beer, however, were cheaper
than bread and were sold from stands on the
street, where unwashed salespeople poured
out purchases, then recapped the bottles. I
saw 12-year-old children buy vodka, then sit
beside a wall sipping it. But Stefan was not
disturbed. "What difference does it make?"
he demanded.# "For a little while they're
warm and don't think about food. Let them
- enjoy itif they can."
I was required to report to the town police
as well as to the woman in the apartment
building, and this rapidly turned into an-
other nightmare. Dark halls of the police
station were lined with benches, the benches
filled with silent people. When I knocked on
the door of the proper office, a woman's harsh
voice told me to come in--alone. She looked
as rough as her voice; and when I started to
sit down, she barked, "I'll tell you when to
sit down."
My papers appeared to enrage her. "Why
do you come here and to whom?" she de-
manded-and then insisted on my entire
family history. She told me to wait, but
after a full hour admitted that someone else
would have to check my papers. I spent an-
other 2 hours in the corridor with my fright-
ened relatives before she called me into the
room again and threw the passport at me.
A few minutes later four of us were stand-
ing on a downtown sidewalk when two Rus-
sian soldiers suddenly pushed between us
and ordered, "Move on." Quickly my family
pulled me away as the Russians looked back
at us suspiciously. I noticed afterward that
no sidewalk group ever contained four Poles:
it was too conspicuous. The only large
groups were Russian soldiers, moving as if on
patrol with pistols slapping their legs.
There were, however, many people on the
streets. Dozens merely sat on the sidewalks
with their backs against buildings or stone
walls, not moving and not talking. Many
had small bundles beside them. Stefan ex-
plained, "They're people from other towns.
They have come here looking for something
or someone, but they have no place to go."
Once while I was watching, a police patrol
passed, followed by a horse drawing a high-
sided cart. A patrolman looked hard at each
of the sitting people and now and then
touched one with his foot. If the sitter
moved, the patrol passed on. But one police-
man touched an outstretched foot and re-
ceived no answering movement. The men
muttered to one another and two of them
picked up a small body-a young girl or a
child-still stiff in  the sitting position.
Without ceremony they heaved her into the
cart.
Stefan said, "The girl is dead. Just come
along."
I was shaken and weary. We waited for
a bus, but when the ancient vehicle arrived,
it was jammed with people. A young woman
with a face like a ghost's collected fares and
called stops to the driver, who sometimes
beard her. Once as we started up again a
child tried to hang on in the doorway, but
fell off. People screemed, but the driver kept
going. I could not tell whether the child
had been struck; but as the noise lessened, a

woman said softly, "One less mouth to feed."
That was all.
I wanted something to take home to my
grandchildren and for days tried to find a
record of the Polish national hymn or a small
statue of the Madonna. But all I found
were a few pieces of jewelry set with ambr
and a small girl's costume vest in velvet. As
we came into the street from one shopping
foray, however, half a dozen young Russians
soldiers strolled ahead of us, and ahead of
them an old Polish man propelled himself in
a wheel chair. The Russians-I can't say
whether they were drunk-chattered to one
another, then ran up and dumped the old
man into the street. While he cried pite-
ously, they played a game with the chair-
two sitting in it and making honking sounds,
two others pushing and yelling, "Aftomo-
bil! Aftomobil!" At high speed they dis-
appeared around a corner.
Dozens of Poles were nearby, but nobody
said anything. I turned on Stefan. "Aren't
you going to do anything? Stop them! That
man could be your father." But Stefan
walked away.
I hurried after him, finding him on an-
other corner, his hands in his pockets. He
said, "Do you think I want a bullet in the
back? Nothing can be done. It is better to
leave when 'our friends' are involved. You
must do nothing to 'our friends'." I wish I
could convey the bitterness of those two
words.
The days passed slowly. Boleslaw won-
dered aloud whether I told the truth about
the outside world-perhaps the whole world
lived as they did. In evidence, he showed
me a newspaper clipping declaring that
Americans ate grass and tree bark to keep
from starving. I told him the clipping erred
only slightly-we used the grass for chloro-
phyll, the bark for medicines. I had told
Stefan I'd like to go to church, and he ad-
mitted one evening that we could. But
Boleslaw would not go.
Certainly it was like nothing I had ex-
perienced before. In secrecy and in the dark
we crossed a rough field. Stefan warned,
"If anything happens, you both go back.
Don't wait for me or try to find out any-
thing." At last we came to a building, but
I could see only dark walls, no lights.
Stefan  stooped, and    we   followed  him
through what must have been a window
and into a semicellar. All was dark except
for a tiny light on an altar. We fumbled
for room, with people kneeling all around.
Next to me I could see a young woman with
a baby nursing. Tears ran down her face as
she fingered a rosary and muttered without
clear words. Only such murmurs could be
heard. If there was a real service, I could
not see it. So we only knelt until Stefan
touched my arm, then went back the way we
had come, alone and in the dark.
Thus one church     operated. In John's
home village, however, both the Catholic
and Lutheran churches were deserted-the
Lutheran boarded up.
These people no longer worried about
cleanliness. When I tried to show Boleslaw
how   young   Americans    wash, he    only
laughed-and     Stefan  shrugged. "What's
the use?" he said. "I don't care any more.
There is no soap, there is nothing." But
both men were interested in a small razor
I carried, to shave my legs. I gave it to
them, but had to show them how to keep
my only two blades sharp by rotating them
in  a  water glass. Previously   they  had
trimmed their beards wittV the same old
shears they used to cut each other's hair.
In the bedroom they had a small, weak
radio which somehow had survived the
looters; but the Polish programs were hours
apart, many of them political talks. They
all knew when the Voice of Free Europe
broadcasts were scheduled; but each time

howls and squeaks-the deliberate Com-
munist Jamming-would       drown   out the
station after a few words of Polish.
One Saturday evening we went to a navy
officers' club. One relative still had a navy
job, although another young man had re-
signed his commission and now was a com-
mon sailor on a merchant ship. His wife
expected that he would jump ship at the
first opportunity in a free port; but she
said, "It will be all right, if only he can be
free."
Perhaps 250 persons jammed the club, in-
cluding 75 Russian men. Their tables had
great platters of food, but the Poles could
order only vodka or thick Turkish coffee
from a lone, madly running waiter. Be-
cause the Polish women would not dance
with the Russians, the Poles in their shoddy
uniforms did all the dancing. The women
were dressed much alike, with fiat shoes and
no makeup or jewelry; but Stefan had said,
"Wear your American clothes. We'll show
them how Americans look." So I sat in this
somber throng in a new black suit, high
heels, crystal earrings, costume jewelry, and
ordinary cosmetics. Certainly I attracted
enough attention, and we decided not to
dance. But a Russian officer, perhaps 20
years younger than I, pushed into the middle
of our Polish group. In perfect English
he courteously asked me to dance. I hesi-
tated, looking at the people in our party.
Immediately the Russian, using English-
which my family does not understand-de-
manded, "Do you have to ask these Polish
swine for permission?"
I said, "Perhaps I am Polish swine too."
But he would not go away. To avoid a
scene I arose and talked to him at a little
distance from my family, while they sat
as if frozen. The Russian kept asking per-
sonal questions, so I finally told him I was
married and had 10 children-and that my
husband had stayed home to care for them.
"Don't lie," he said. "I don't believe you
even have a husband. From now on, I com-
mand you to dance with me."
I told him I was a citizen of a free country,
and his command meant nothing to me.
But he then insisted that I come to his table
and eat some of the heaped-up food. In-
stead I complimented him on his American-
accented English. Immediately he swelled
with pride and said he was glad about the
accent because he could use it when he came
to America. But, he added, "7 years is too
long to wait."
I didn't know what he meant-whether he
expected to make a visit or whether some-
one had told him the Russians would be in
America in 7 years-but I said, "Well, that's
all right We expect you. You just come
on. We're always ready for guests, invited or
not."
"I don't understand why you're talking to
me at all," he said. "Don't the Americans
hate us?"
"I do not see your uniform," I told him,
"only another human being."
This could have gone on and on, but I
felt like a traitor to my family. I returned
to our table, but now we were a center of
attention. Stefan wished to leave, although
the dance was to continue for hours. But
at least 50 Russians followed us to the club
lobby, demanding that we stay. I told the
young officer that we would come back the
next night, but that did not satisfy them.
Finally they stopped the music and told
everybody else to go home, just because we
were going.
Quickly and close together my alarmed
family and I hurried home through dark
streets. As he did every night, Stefan piled
furniture against the doors before he want
to bed and put old glass jars on top so that
the slightest movement would cause them to
f all and break. But nothing happened.

1960

A371



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0372.txt

A372                                  CON
The only people who did visit us at night
were two strange men and a woman who ar-
rived several nights later. One man handed
me two pictures of the Madonna and Child,
asking me to give them to some Polish peo-
ple in the United States. The second had a
very large, handmade book filled mostly with
snapshots about the life of Polish people
since World War fl-scenes of misery and
poverty. He insisted that I take this with
me, so people in the West could know what
life was in Poland. He was sure I could get
it through customs, perhaps under my cloth-
ing; but when I repeatedly refused, he said
he would get it to me somehow, perhaps via
Sweden; and I agreed to show it to as many
people as possible. But in the months since
my return, the book has not arrived.
The woman had a different plea: Would
I buy the heavy and expensive Persian lamb
coat she had wrapped in a bundle? It had
survived burial, like most things the Poles
still had. Now she did not dare to wear it,
but needed food and medicines for her fam-
ily. I paid her $20 in U.S. currency-all I
possibly could afford. The three strangers
blessed me as they went out Into the dark.
Janina and I took a label out of a coat I
had brought with me and sewed it into the
lamb, and I gave the second coat to her.
After 12 days I became ill, suffering chills
and fever. The apartment building had no
telephone, and no civilian doctor was avail-
able-these people had not even been able to
see a dentist in a decade-but Stefan ran in
the night to another relative, who induced
a navy doctor to walk to see me. But he
said, "I know what you need, but I do not
have such medicines. Just brew strong tea
and drink that." This was the extent of
my medication, except for a few sulfa tab-
lets. I lost pounds daily, and my visa was
running out. So I gave many of my belong-
ings to the family and packed the rest. On
a frigid morning Janina held me close. "You
pray for us," she said, "and I will pray for
you. Thanks so much for rekindling our
hopes."
Stefan and Boleslaw went with me to the
airport, where a single-engined     airplane
waited on an unpaved runway. There was
delay after delay, and the tension finally was
too much for Boleslaw, who turned away in
tears and left. I could say only, "God give
him strength."
Stefan stayed, however, and when I finally
was told to board-the plane, he reached into
his pocket. Carefully he dropped a handful
of beans into my palm. "Take these," he
said. "I will never leave here, but perhaps
these Polish beans may grow in free soil."
I knew of nothing to say to him.
On the airplane five men and I sat on
wooden   benches in the unheated cabin,
without safety belts-and the plane took off
after another hour's delay. This was the
last day in Poland allowed by my visa. At
customs In Warsaw, officers confiscated my
last 150 zlotys-then took from my baggage
all my nylon clothing, a small camera, fam-
ily pictures, soap and toilet articles. If I
could pay a luxury tax, they blandly in-
formed me, I could have them back, al-
though they were things I had brought to
Poland. Finally an exit seal was entered
on my passport, and I was sent to another
building to await a Dutch international air-
liner. But no plane appeared. Finally I
found an official who said the plane to Am-
sterdam would not stop at Warsaw that day.
I was in despair, alone, sick, cold, my
Polish money gone. I begged a Polish police-
man to telephone the American embassy;
but he said, "Come with me quickly, before
the Russian police wonder what all the
trouble is." I thought, is there no one in
this poor country not living under a shadow
of fear?

GRESSIONAL RECORD - APPEN
An embassy chauffeur took me to a hotel,
although I had only my handbag. My tiny
third-floor room was equipped with a chair
and a bed-the blankets dirty, the sheets
indescribable. There was no water for wash-
ing nor any warmth in the radiator-but
there was a chamber pot. Hours later a
young man from the embassy brought me
100 zlotys for food, but warned me not even
to leave the room. In the hallway, a sleepy
maid shook her head at the Polish money,
but produced tea and bread when I showed
her an American dollar.
I could not stomach the bed, so spent the
night in the chair-the longest, coldest
night I remember. In the morning another
dollar produced more bread and tea, and at
11 a.m. the embassy man came back to take
me to the airport. He could not locate my
confiscated possessions, but did get me onto
a plane for Amsterdam. The last thing I
saw in Poland was a Polish officer handing
up my passport; and I thought I read in his
eyes a wish that he, too, could be going
away.
Four men on the plane must have thought
I looked like a refugee, because one gave me
an orange and another handed me a cooky
in a cellophane bag. The stewardess offered
the first real coffee I'd tasted in 2 weeks.
I began to cry and could not stop. I still
was crying as the plane lifted off the soil of
Poland.
Misconceptions in Public Understanding
of Monetary Policy
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
OF
HON. A. WILLIS ROBERTSON
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
Monday, January 18, 1960
Mr. ROBERTSON. Mr. President,
the November 1959 issue of the Monthly
Review of the Federal Reserve Bank of
St. Louis contains an article, entitled
"Some Misconceptions in Public Under-
standing of Monetary Policy." The ar-
ticle, which was written by Dr. Carl T.
Arlt, director of research of the Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis and a former
member of the staff of the Committee
on Banking and Currency, is an excellent
explanation of Federal Reserve objec-
tives and controls, and also includes a
clear examination of current criticisms
of monetary policy.
I ask unanimous consent that the ar-
ticle be printed in the Appendix of the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:
SOME MISCONCEPTIONS IN PUBLIC UNDER-
STANDING AND MONETARY POLICY
The rise in the level of interest rates in
recent years, and more particularly the sharp
rise since mid-1958, has created considerable
public interest in monetary policy.
Public reactions to Federal Reserve policies
reflect sharp differences of opinion with re-
spect to the forces raising interest rates and
the principles  guiding  Federal Reserve
authorities in this connection. Many peo-
ple are generally aware of the reasons for
current monetary policy and accept the rise
In interest rates as the inevitable result of
the bulging credit demands of a boom press-

TDIX                        January 18
ing against a supply of credit which is
necessarily more limited In amount. There
are others, however, who regard the rise in
interest rates with alarm and resentment.
They consider the present level of rates
a product of an inappropriate monetary
policy.
The generalizations most frequently used
by critics of current monetary policy are the
following:
1. Federal Reserve authorities are deliber-
ately fixing interest rates at high levels.
2. Rising interest rates, by increasing the
cost of borrowing, contribute to inflation.
3. Interest rates are abnormally high as
evidenced by the fact that they are now at
a 25-year peak.
4. Federal Reserve authorities have the
power to keep rates down and should use
that power.
5. Rising interest rates reflect a policy of
excessive monetary restraint which Inhibits
economic growth and full utilization of re-
sources.
The purpose of this article Is to suggest
that these generalizations in the main re-
flect (1) public misunderstanding of Fed-
eral Reserve policy and operations, and (2)
preoccupation with Immediate goals without
sufficient regard for longer run consequences.
A  REVIEW   OF FEDERAL   RESERVE OBJECTrV
AND CONTROLS
Since many of the above generalizations
apparently reflect some basic misconceptions
in the public's understanding of what the
Federal Reserve authorities are attempting
to do and how they are doing it, a brief
review of the objectives and the mechanisms
of credit control seems to be in order1
Objectives
The primary objective of the System is to
influence the monetary and credit situation
so as to encourage growth and resist both
inflation and deflation.
The focal point of Federal Reserve action
is the volume of member bank reserves avail-
able for lending and investing, since gener-
ally each new bank loan or Investment, with
its simultaneous creation of a new deposit
balance, represents an addition to the money
supply available for spending on goods and
services.
In a boom period, the monetary authori-
ties will attempt to influence member bank
reserves so that the lending ability of com-
mercial banks does not increase at a faster
rate than is compatible with the economy's
capacity to increase Its real product. In
other words, as expanding credit demands
of the economy impose growing pressures on
banks to extend more credit and to seek ad-
ditional reserves to meet expanding reserve
requirements, the Federal Reserve System
