wants more district systems. So far the oppo-
site has been happening. In the last 15 years,
15 communities in Minnesota have aban-
doned district plants. Worthington and two
other cities, Owatonna and Mountain Iron,
are thinking about closing.
Sundberg is trying to get enough money
for a small-scale study of the three systems.
He hopes it will come up with some options
for the communities and give a reprieve to
the aging plants and their piping networks,
which carry the steam. The "distribution"
networks are afflicted with hardening of the
arteries.
Sundberg also hopes that the 15 systems
still operated by cities in the state will be
able to continue operating, and that new
systems, such as the one planned in Moor-
head, will be economically feasible.

495



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0496.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - SENATE

January 23, 1980

Economics played the major role in killing
most of the defunct systems, according to
Mary Williams, who recently made a survey
of district heating in the state.
She is a staff member of the Minnesota
Project, a privately financed group that
studies issues and problems confronting
communities in the state.
Most of the district systems were put in
60 to 70 years ago. Municipal power com-
panies producing electricity decided to use
the "waste steam" rather than turning it
loose in the air or into rivers and lakes
through the plants' cooling systems.
That waste steam is extracted from the
generating turbines by special equipment.
The steam is then piped to nearby buildings.
The extraction reduces the efficiency of the
turbine somewhat. Consequently, it takes
more fuel to produce the electricity-about
33 percent more. Despite that, the total
amount of fuel needed is less than if indi-
vidual furnaces were used.
That makes district heating a winner in
the present energy crunch.
Many of the individual systems became
losers, however, because millions of dollars
are needed to update and properly maintain
the generating equipment and the distribu-
tion pipes. In addition, many municipal
plants can now buy electricity generated at
huge plants more cheaply than they can
make it in their small, less efficient plants.
That is one of the reasons why Alexandria,
Minn., abandoned its system, and it is also
a factor in Worthington's situation, accord-
ing to Mary Williams.
A related problem is the rising cost of fuel
for generating electricity. Fuel oil prices have
risen sharply and there is no end in sight.
That is one of the main reasons why the two
colleges in Moorhead are interested in dis-
trict heating.
Concordia College and Moorhead State
University heat primarily with fuel oil and
have given some thought to converting to
coal. (Coal prices have risen sharply, too,
but are still cheaper than oil, and the coal
Is close at hand instead of in the Middle
East.) Converting to coal would be extremely
expensive. It would cost perhaps as much
as $5 million for Moorhead State alone, ac-
cording to Dennis Mathiason, a physics
professor who Is on leave from the school to
be manager of the Moorhead project.
Mathiason thinks using Moorhead's coal-
fired generating plant to produce heat as
well as electricity is the best solution for the
colleges and, eventually, for the downtown
area as well as other parts of the city.
He believes that the price of the heat would
be cheaper than oil and competitive with
other fuels such as gas. And the total amount
of fuel needed for heating and making elec-
tricity would be significantly less.
However, the price will be high for alter-
ing the power plant, putting in the network
of pipes and then converting each building
to the new system. The estimate of $10 mil-
lion to $12 million for the three-stage proj-
ect might prove to be conservative.
The first stage, altering the plant and
providing heat for the schools, is expected to
cost $5 million to $6 million. Mathlason is
counting on the federal government making
a handsome contribution. The feds are en-
couraging increased fuel efficiency and re-
duction in the reliance on oil. The Legisla-
tdre is expected to help, too, because Moor-
head State would benefit and it is a state
school.
That probably won't be enough, however,
and the city of Moorhead will have to con-
tribute, too. That means a bond issue. And
that could be a sticky wicket, politically
speaking, because it means asking homeown-
ers, who.have their own furnaces and fuel
bills, to help pay for a system that won't di-
rectly benefit them.

"We've got a heck of a selling job to do.
We are well aware of that," said Mathiason.
"Actually, it will benefit everyone because
having the colleges in Moorhead benefits
everyone. And when you think about it in
terms of the big picture, that is really true
for the downtown area, too. We all have to
shop and we all want nice stores to go to
when we do shop."
Mathlason believes that eventually much
of the town's residential areas could plug
into the district heating. In the past, that
usually hasn't been feasible for economic
and technical reasons. It cost too much to
put pipes into homes which used relatively
small amounts of heat. (Hibbing and Vir-
ginia, Minn., are exceptions to that rule.
They have residential district heating, but
their systems were put in when low-cost
natural gas wasn't available on the Iron
Range.)
The technical problem stems from the fact
that steam cannot be "pushed" very far
through pipes.
Mathlason thinks the cost of putting pipes
into homes may eventually start looking bet-
ter and better to homeowners. "We don't
know where this heating situation is going.
We aren't sure about our sources of oil any-
more. We don't know how much it (oil) will
cost. We can't be sure about (natural) gas
either. They tell us now there is plenty (of
gas), but a couple of years ago it was in
short supply and prices shot way up.
"There are many Ifs involved, and the
more I learn about it, the better district
heating looks."
Others agree. Northern States Power Co. is
looking into the feasibility of putting in
district heat in downtown Red Wing, Minn.
Fergus Falls, Minn., is studying It too, as is
Minneapolis. Last fall St. Paul got $7 million
in federal funds to plan a district heating
project for part of the downtown area. Con-
struction on that system might begin next
year.
District heating, which is used widely in
metropolitan areas in Europe and the So-
viet Union, may be the way to go.
Except in Worthington. And other small
towns where it was the way to go 70 years
ago and is now Just about gone.*
POOR PEOPLE'S ENERGY PLAN
* Mr. DURKIN. Mr. President, many
plans have been offered to curb our Na-
tion's very serious energy crisis. One, in
particular, demands special recognition.
The proposal by the National Center for
Appropriate   Technology    outlines  an
energy plan which would yield tremen-
dous fuel savings-savings equivalent to
those projected in the administration's
costly synthetic fuels program.
The NCAT proposal will also benefit
the Nation's low-income families by
reducing their energy costs and improv-
ing their energy self-sufficiency. There
are over a million low-income families in
New Hampshire and New England that
cannot afford today's sky-high energy
costs. Our energy-fueled inflation prom-
ises even more outrageous prices in the
future, which will further increase the
number of people snowed under by high
energy bills.
To combat these escalating costs and
tackle runaway inflation, the NCAT plan
proposes to provide direct aid to help
families immediately, as well as to in-
crease the energy efficiency in their
homes, which will help to secure an af-
fordable energy future.
Major components of the proposal are:

Weatherization of 16 million low-in-
come homes, especially in areas such as
New Hampshire, which are dependent on
costly imported home heating oil, kero-
sene, propane, and electricity;
National programs to install solar
heating systems in low-income residences
and housing projects;
Retrofitting older automobiles to im-
prove gas mileage; and
Several plans to increase community
food production in low-income areas.
I heartily endorse this plan, which
would lift the burden of excessive energy
cost from the shoulders of those who are
hit hardest. I ask that the following
article explaining the NCAT proposal in
greater detail be printed in the RECORD
in its entirety.
The article follows:
POOR PEOPLE'S ENERGY PLAN
A national energy plan that could yield
approximately as much energy as would be
produced under President Carter's synthetic
fuels program-and begin to achieve that
savings before a single synfuels plant starts
producing-has been proposed by researchers
at the National Center for Appropriate Tech-
nology (NCAT).
Perhaps the most remarkable feature of the
NCAT plan is that these huge energy sav-
ings, the equivalent of 1.7 million barrels
of oil per day, would be achieved solely
through programs directed at making low-
income people more energy self-reliant.
Poor people, according to the plan, would
be on the cutting edge of social and tech-
nological change by helping demonstrate the
effectiveness of massive energy conservation
and  renewable   energy  utilization  tech-
nologies.
"If this much can be achieved by the low-
income sector, the sector that uses the least
energy per capita, the potential for a re-
newable energy future will be demonstrated
for all Americans," concludes John McBride,
Deputy Director for Policy and Technology
at NCAT and principal author of the pro-
posed energy plan.
Energy savings of the "poor people's energy
plan" would not be achieved by forcing low-
income consumers to make do with less,
nor by setting prohibitively high prices.
Rather, the savings would accrue from ac-
celerated energy conservation work on low-
income homes, installation of solar heating
systems, construction of energy-efficient pub-
lic housing, refitting and improving the gas
mileage of older cars, production of alcohol
fuels, and use of greenhouses, community
agriculture and alternative food marketing
systems in low-income areas.
Despite the substantial overall energy
savings it might achieve, the principal goal
of the NCAT plan is to increase the self-
reliance of low-income people, to blunt the
impact of high costs and diminishing sup-
plies of energy, and, at the same time, to
alleviate some of the basic problems of
poverty.
The NCAT proposals notes that, although
President Carter called   conservation the
"cornerstone" of his national energy policy
in 1977, priority has instead been given to
an $88-billion, 10-year synthetic fuels de-
velopment program, including a proposed
Presidential commission to expedite it.
"Why are there no multi-billion-dollar
conservation and renewable energy programs
and a Presidential commission with the au-
thority to clear roadblocks in the path of
conservation and renewable energy develop-
ment?" the NCAT report asks.
The "poor people's energy plan" proposed
by NCAT calls for a major Federal program
that both attacks the devastating energy

496



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0497.txt

January 23, 1980

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - SENATE

problems of poor people and demonstrates
the promise of renewable energy and conser-
vation.
"America is presently engaged in a critical
debate over how best to meet the energy
crisis," said Edwin C. Kepler, NCAT execu-
tive director, in releasing the proposal. "We
believe the alternatives highlighted in our
proposal are not getting the attention they
deserve, and that's why we have issued this
study."
Key aspects of the proposal are:
(1.) A short-term program of "crisis inter-
vention" payments to help low-income peo-
ple pay their energy bills, which would be
phased out in future years as the energy load
is picked up by conservation and renewable
energy and fuel/utility bills are reduced to
manageable levels.
"Without emergency assistance in cold-
climate areas, low-income people who can-
not pay their fuel bills will quite literally
freeze," the report states. "But ... a dollar
spent for low-income emergency assistance
pays for a quantity of fuel which is burned
and temporarily keeps a poor person warm.
It is used once; it cannot be recovered or used
again. A dollar spent for conservation or
solar energy, conversely, continues to supply
new energy, day after day and year after
year."
The plan recommends boosting President
Carter's low-income energy assistance pro-
gram from $1.3 billion to $3.2 billion this
year, and changing its income-eligibility
standards so that the program can be opened
to more households.
(2.) A massive program to "weatherize"
16 million low-income homes--one-fifth of
the nation's housing stock--over five years,
including substantial liberalization of spend-
ing limits and restrictions to permit optimal
energy conservation measures to be taken
for each home and apartment.
The program, aimed at reducing energy
consumption of each residence by 50 percent
or more, would be directed first toward areas
where it is needed most---cold climate re-
gions such as the Northeast, where scarce
and expensive fuel oil is a common source of
heating fuel.
(3.) A national program, designed as a fol-
low-up to the weatherization program, to in-
stall solar space and water-heating systems
on low-income residences. Cost-effective so-
lar and energy conservation measures also
would be made mandatory in all new public
housing projects.
(4.) Programs for "recycling" old automo-
biles, not only to make them more fuel-
efficient but also to conserve the energy
used in manufacturing them by greatly ex-
tending their useful life. In addition, two
to three million vehicles per year would be
retrofitted to increase their fuel efficiency by
at least 20 percent. Major development pro-
grams would be undertaken in both gasoline/
alcohol blends (gasohol) and pure-alcohol
motor fuels.
(5.) Three major programs aimed at sup-
plementing the food supplies and increasing
the self-reliance of low-income people would
be   undertaken:    Installing  solar-reliant
greenhouses; encouraging establishment of
local community gardens; and decentralizing
food production and distribution systems
through establishment of local consumer,
and/or producer-operated cooperative food
marketing systems.
"The poor use less energy than the rest
of us and pay a greater proportion of their
income for it," says McBride, noting that
low-income people in cold climates com-
monly pay 30-40 percent of their incomes
for fuel and utilities, while middle-income
consumers in the same regions spend only
about 7-10 percent. Yet, he says, the poor
and near-poor use far less energy per capi-
ta than do more affluent segments of society.
CXXVI--32--Part 1

And, the report states that the cost of
energy-intensive necessities like food and
transportation pose equally distressing prob-
lems for the poor. Escalating food prices
dictated by mechanized food production,
processing and distribution systems, as well
as the appetites of gas-guzzling older cars
they can afford, place low-income people at
ever-greater economic disadvantage.
The NCAT energy plan analyzes three dif-
ferent approaches to alleviate energy prob-
lems of the poor: Subsidy programs to help
consumers pay energy bills; further develop-
opment of large-scale energy technologies
in hopes of lowering costs; and transfer of
small-scale technologies that increase self-
sufficiency of low-income people.
The alternative favored by the synfuels
program, developing large-scale technologies,
is rejected in part on the basis of history.
"It is often the case that new energy tech-
nologies become more expensive rather than
less so as they are developed and brought in-
to the commercial marketplace," notes Mc-
Bride, citing the example of nuclear power's
early promise of electricity "too cheap to
meter".
"For poor people this means the prospect
of fuel bills that will increase in the future
as rapidly as they have in the past few
years, and poor people's food bills, which are
inextricably linked to energy costs, will re-
flect the same upward trend", the report
states.
"A transition to renewable-energy-based
society is inevitable. The time for this in-
evitable transition is now, while it can be
rationally planned and while fossil fuels are
still available to bridge the transition, not
at some time in the future when many cur-
rently available options have been fore-
closed," argues the NCAT proposal.
The National Center for Appropriate Tech-
nology, established in 1976, is funded by a
$3.7 million grant from the U.S. Community
Services Administration to develop and ap-
ply small-scale, low-cost technologies that
alleviate energy and related economic prob-
lems of the poor.
The Center's research and development,
small grants, information and administra-
tion headquarters are located in Butte, Mon-
tana, and NCAT offices are maintained in
Washington, D.C., as well as in each of the
10 federal regions.
The complete text of the NCAT proposal,
"Energy and the Poor: An Imperative for
Action", can be obtained by writing to John
McBride, Deputy Director for Policy and
Technology, The National Center for Appro-
priate Technology, P.O. Box 3838, Butte, MT.,
59701.*
TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCES IN
COKE PRODUCTION
* Mr. HEINZ. Mr. President, the deluge
of steel-plant closings announced this
week highlight the need for legislative
action to revive our ailing national steel
industry. Ideally, such legislative action
should not attempt merely to stabilize
the industry in its present state; rather,
it should attempt to stimulate the indus-
try to streamline and modernize its fa-
cilities. It should encourage the develop-
ment and application of technological
innovations. Only by so doing will our
steel industry be able to keep pace, on its
own resources, with foreign competition.
One such technological innovation of
great promise for steel-making is the
formed coke or "formcoke" process,
which produces a more efficient and en-
vironmentally sound fuel for blast fur-
naces. Formcoke is made from coals that

are heat-treated in special ways, bound
together, and formed into briquettes or
pellets of uniform size and shape. The
uniformity of formcoke permits greater
productivity and energy-efficiency in
steelmaking: A    significantly  greater
amount of steel can be produced with a
ton of formcoke than with ordinary coke.
There are numerous other advantages to
formcoke over the ordinary coke now
employed throughout the world. Less
energy is required to produce formcoke.
It can be made from inferior-grade coals
unsuitable for any other purposes. Con-
sequently, it can employ easily obtain-
able coals that would otherwise be use-
less. Coal mines thought to be "mined
out" could be put back to work-along
with the miners formerly employed in
them. Most important, the formcoke
production process is inherently environ-
mentally sound: It is a continuous and
closed process that nowhere permits pol-
lutants to escape to the air.
I am pleased to say that the develop-
ment of formcoke has been well under-
way in this country for years, and that
Congress has already initiated action to
help it along. Congress approved an ap-
propriation for fiscal year 1980 of $5.8
million to support a formcoke demon-
stration project to be conducted by In-
land Steel Co. and $1.5 million to con-
tinue the operation of a pilot plant con-
structed by Formcoke Associates (a steel
industry group). These projects give
every indication of yielding an economi-
cally advantageous product that will
bear out its promise.
We can expect the formcoke process,
therefore, to find a welcome place in our
Nation's steel industry. But the steel in-
dustry is now desperately short of the
capital required to renovate its aging
and deteriorating coke production fa-
cilities, let alone make room for their
future replacement by facilities for the
production of formcoke. This technologi-
cal advance could very well be left un-
used in this country while seized upon
abroad. Fortunately the Senate has had
the foresight to begin action on this
problem. On Monday, November 26, it
approved my amendment to the Wind-
fall Profit Tax Act that makes coke-
ovens eligible for the Alternative Energy
Property Investment Tax Credit enacted
last year. If this amendment is retained
in conference with the House and passed
into law, it will significantly expedite the
steel industry's long-term planning and
improve its rate of coke-oven rehabilita-
tion. It is the kind of legislation needed
to prompt this industry to rebuild its
facilities and equip them with the most
advanced technology. The result will be
a more competitive and environmentally
sound industry.*
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON
ENERGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES
0 Mr. JACKSON. Mr. President in ac-
cordance with the provisions of section
133B of the Legislative Reorganization
Act of 1946, as amended, I submit for
printing in the REcoRD the rules of the
Committee   on   Energy   and  Natural
Resources.

497



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0498.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - SENATE

January 23, 1980

The rules follow:
RULES OF THE SENATE COMMITTEE ON ENERGY
AND NATURAL RESOURCES
GENERAL RULES
Rule 1. The Standing Rules of the Senate
and the provisions of the Legislative Reor-
ganization Act of 1946, as amended by the
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1970, to
the extent the provisions of such Acts are
applicable to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources and as supplemented by
these rules, are adopted as the rules of the
Committee and its Subcommittees.
MEETINGS OF THE COMMITTEE
Rule 2. (a) The Committee shall meet on
the third Wednesday of each month while
the Congress is in session for the purpose
of conducting business, unless, for the con-
venience of Members, the Chairman shall
set some other day for a meeting. Additional
meetings may be called by the Chairman as
he may deem necessary.
(b) Business meetings of any Subcom-
mittee may be called by the Chairman of
such Subcommittee, Provided, That no Sub-
committee meeting or hearing other than
a field hearing, shall be scheduled or held
concurrently with a full Committee meeting
or hearing, unless a majority of the Com-
mittee concurs in such concurrent meeting
or hearing.
OPEN HEARINGS AND MEETINGS
Rule 3. (a) Hearings and business meetings
of the Committee or any Subcommittee shall
be open to the public except when the Com-
mittee or such Subcommittee by majority
vote orders a closed hearing or meeting.
(b) A transcript shall be kept of each
hearing of the Committee or any Subcom-
mittee.
(c) A transcript shall be kept of each busi-
ness meeting of the Committee or any Sub-
committee unless a majority of the Commit-
tee or the Subcommittee inivolved agrees that
some other form of permanent record is
preferable.
HEARING PROCEDURE
Rule 4. (a) Public notice shall be given
of the date, place, and subject matter of
any hearing to be held by the Committee
or any Subcommittee at least one week in
advance of such hearing unless the Chair-
man of the full Committee or the Subcom-
mittee involved determines that the hearing
Is non-controversial or that special circum-
stances require expedited procedures and a
majority of the Committee or Subcommittee
involved concurs. In no case shall a hear-'
ing be conducted with less than twenty-four
hours notice.
(b) Each witness who is to appear before
the Committee or any Subcommittee shall
file with the Committee or Subcommittee,
at least 24 hours In advance of the hearing, a
written statement of his or her testimony
in as many copies as the Chairman of the
Committee or Subcommittee prescribes.
(c) Each member shall be limited to five
minutes in the questioning of any witness
until such time as all Members who so desire
have had an opportunity to question the
witness.
(d) The Chairman and ranking Minority
Member or the ranking Majority and Minor-
ity Members present at the hearing may
each appoint one Committee staff member
to question each witness. Such staff mem-
ber may question the witness only after
all Members present have completed their
questioning of the witness or at such other
time as the Chairman and the ranking Ma-
jority and Minority Members present may
agree.
BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
Rule 5. (a) A legislative measure or sub-
ject shall be Included on the agenda of
the next following business meeting of the

full Committee or any Subcommittee if a
written request for such inclusion has been
filed with the Chairman of the Committee or
Subcommittee at least one week prior to
such meeting. Nothing In this rule shall be
construed to limit the authority of the Chair-
man of the Committee or Subcommittee to
include legislative measures or subjects on
the Committee or Subcommittee agenda in
the absence of such request.
(b) The agenda for any business meeting of
the Committee or any Subcommittee shall
be provided to each Member and made avail-
able to the public at least three days prior
to such meeting, and no new items may be
added after the agenda is so published ex-
cept by the approval of a majority of the
Members of the Committee or Subcommittee.
The Staff Director shall promptly notify
absent Members of any action taken by
the Committee or any Subcommittee on
matters not included    on   the published
agenda.
QUORUMS
Rule 6. (a) Except as provided in subsec-
tions (b), (c), and (d), six Members shall
constitute a quorum for the conduct of
business of the Committee.
(b) No measure or matter shall be ordered
reported from the Committee unless ten
Members of the Committee are actually pres-
ent at the time such action is taken.
(c) Except as provided in subsection (d),
one-third of the Subcommittee Members
shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of
business of any Subcommittee.
(d) One Member shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of conducting a hearing or
taking testimony on any measure or matter
before the Committee or any Subcommittee.
VOTING
Rule 7. (a) A roll call of the Members shall
be taken upon the request of any Member.
Any member who does not vote on any roll
call at the time the roll Is called, may vote
(in person or by proxy) on that roll call at
any later time during the same business
meeting.
(b) Proxy voting shall be permitted on all
matters, except that proxies may not be
counted for the purpose of determining the
presence of a quorum. Unless further lim-
ited, a proxy shall be exercised only upon
the date for which it is given and upon
the items published In the agenda for that
date.
(c) Each Committee report shall set forth
the vote on the motion to report the meas-
ure or matter involved. Unless the Commit-
tee directs otherwise, the report will not set
out any votes on amendments offered dur-
Ing Commtttee consideration. Any member
who did not vote on any roll call shall have
the opportunity to have his position recorded
in the appropriate Committee record or Com-
mittee report.
(d) The Committee vote to report a meas-
ure to the Senate shall also authorize the
staff of the Committee to make necessary
technical and clerical corrections in the
measure.
SUBCOMMITTEES
Rule 8. (a) The number of members as-
signed to each Subcommittee and the divi-
sion between majority and minority mem-
bers shall be fixed by the Chairman in con-
sultation with the ranking minority member.
(b) Assignment of members to subcom-
mittees shall, insofar as possible, reflect the
preferences of the members. No member will
receive assignment to a second Subcommittee
until, in order of seniority, all Members of
the Committee have chosen assignments to
one Subcommittee, and no Member shall re-
ceive assignment to a third Subcommittee
until, in order of seniority, all Members have
chosen assignments, to two Subcommittees.
(c) Any Member of the Committee may sit

with any Subcommittee during its hearings
and business meetings but shall not have
the authority to vote on any matters before
the Subcommittee unless he is a Member of
such Subcommittee.
SWORN TESTIMONY AND FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Rule 9. Witnesses in Committee or Sub-
committee hearings may be required to give
testimony under oath whenever the Chair-
man or ranking Minority Member of the
Committee or Subcommittee deems such
to be necessary. At any hearing to confirm
a Presidential nomination, the testimony of
the nominee and, at the request of any
Member, any other witness shall be under
oath. Every nominee shall submit a state-
ment of his financial Interests, including
those of his spouse, his minor children, and
other members of his immediate household,
on a form approved by the Committee, which
shall be sworn to by the nominee as to its
completeness and accuracy. A statement of
every nominee's financial Interest shall be
made public on a form approved by the
Committee, unless the Committee in execu-
tive session determines that special circum-
stances require a full or partial exception to
this rule. Members of the Committee are
urged to make public a statement of their
financial interests in the form required In
the case of Presidential nominees under
this rule.
CONFIDENTIAL TESTIMONY
Rule 10. No confidential testimony taken
by or confidential material presented to the
Committee or any Subcommittee, or any
report of the proceedings of a closed Com-
mittee or Subcommittee hearing or business
meeting, shall be made public, in whole or
in part or by way of summary, unless
authorized by a majority of the Members
of the Committee at a business meeting
called for the purpose of making such a
determination.
DEFAMATORY STATEMENTS
Rule 11. Any person whose name is men-
tioned or who is specifically identified In,
or who believes that testimony or other
evidence presented at, an open Committee
or Subcommittee hearing tends to defame
him or otherwise adversely affect his reputa-
tion may file with the Committee for its
consideration and action a sworn statement
of facts relevant to such testimony or
evidence.
BROADCASTING OF HEARINGS OR MEETINGS
Rule 12. Any meeting or hearing by the
Committee or any Subcommittee which is
open to the public may be covered in whole
or in part by television broadcast, radio
broadcast, or still photography. Photog-
raphers and reporters using mechanical
recording, filming, or broadcasting devices
shall position their equipment so as not
to interfere with the seating, vision, and
hearing of Members and staff on the dais
or with the orderly process of the meeting
or hearing.
AMENDING THE RULES
Rule 13. These rules may be amended only
by vote of a majority of all the Members of
the Committee in a business meeting of the
Committee: Provided, That no vote may be
taken on any proposed amendment unless
such amendment is reproduced in full in the
Committee agenda for such meeting at least
three days in advance of such meeting.e
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION VERSUS
EQUAL PROTECTION-VIII
* Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, as I have
said before, there are examples of dis-
tinguished liberals who have remained
true to the original philosophy of the

498



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0499.txt

January 23, 1980                      CO]
civil rights movement, and who have
spoken out against its perversion by the
proponents of quotas under euphemism
of "affirmative action."
Dr. Carl Cohen is professor of philos-
ophy at the University of Michigan in
Ann Arbor. He has written widely noticed
books-"Democracy", and "Civil Disobe-
dience." He has been a member of the
board of directors of the American Civil
Liberties Union.
In June 1979, Dr. Cohen published in
Commentary      magazine-which       once
again is demonstrating its prescience by
taking an interest in a taboo issue-an
incisive attack upon the contemporary
drift of opinion. It is perfectly summa-
rized by its title: "Why Race Preference
Is Illegal and Immoral."
I recommend this article to my col-
leagues. I would like to draw particular
attention to subsections (II) and (III),
which demolish all attempts to detract
from the literal wording and purpose of
the Civil Rights Act in prohibiting ra-
cial discrimination. This was exactly the
escape route that the majority of the
Supreme Court took in Weber, to their
considerable shame.
I ask that Dr. Cohen's article be print-
ed in the RECORD.
The article follows:
WHY RACIAL PREFERENCE IS ILLEGAL AND
IMMORAL
The role of race in assuring social justice
is again squarely before the Supreme Court
in a case whose full and revealing name is:
Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation
and United Steelworkers of America, AFL-
CIO, v. Brian F. Weber, individually and on
behalf of all other persons similarly situated.
Weber, a white unskilled steelworker, is
Bakke's analogue. The Steelworkers Union
and Kaiser Aluminum are not the only forces
against him. The United Auto Workers and
the United Mine Workers, the National Edu-
cation Association, the Coalition of Black
Trade Unionists, and assorted other unions
are against him. The American Civil Liberties
Union is against him. Even the United States
government is formally aligned against him.
On Weber's side is the Anti-Defamation
League of B'nai B'rith (with some associated
non-Jewish ethnic groups) and, according to
repeated surveys, an overwhelming majority
of the American population, including a ma-
jority of the black population.
But the issues at stake here, touching the
most fundamental rights of individual per-
sons, are not to be decided by counting noses.
The chief things going for Weber are the
Fourteenth Amendment of the U.S. Constitu-
tion, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as amended,
and sound moral principles. Thrice is he
armed who hath his quarrel just.
Weber has thus far been victorious, both
In the Federal District Court, and in the
Federal Court of Appeals (5th Circuit, New
Orleans). His formidable opponents find it
difficult to overcome the plain words of the
law applied straightforwardly to the estab-
lished facts of his case. The law (Title VII
of the Civil Rights Act, Sec. 703) forbids
flatly all discrimination in employment be-
cause of race.* Beyond any possible doubt
* Subsection (a) of Sec. 703 reads:
"It shall be an unlawful employment prac-
tice for an employer-
"(1) to fail or refuse to hire or discharge
any individual, or otherwise to discriminate
against any individual, or otherwise to dis-
criminate against any individual with re-
spect to his compensation, terms, conditions,
or privileges of employment, because of such

NGRESSIONAL RECORD - SENATE

(as we shall see) Weber was discriminated
against by his employer, and classified by
his employer, and had his status as an em-
ployee adversely affected because of his race.
That   the  employment    practice  through
which this was done is a violation of this
federal law is an ineluctable conclusion of
any rational mind.
Is it not remarkable, then, that unions,
industry, and government should now join
in the effort to persuade the Supreme Court
to evade this conclusion? Weber's opponents
are neither foolish nor evil. They seek, some-
how, to surmount the barriers to racially
discriminatory treatment in order to achieve
objectives they think good. Reflection upon
this case will oblige the Supreme Court-
and all citizens who would reach thought-
ful judgment on these issues-to reconsider
those objectives, and to appraise the means
by which they have been pursued.
The Bakke case, and the DeFunis case
before it, dealt with racially discriminatory
practices in professional-school admissions-
a matter for which the middle classes have,
rightly, a tender concern. Weber deals with
racial discrimination in bluecollar employ-
ment. The injury done Brian Weber was at
least as great as that done Allan Bakke, and
the class Weber formally represents is very
much larger, if less articulate, than that
directly affected by racially preferential
school admissions. It is disturbing, there-
fore, that the voices raised in behalf of
Weber's rights, and the rights of literally
millions of individual citizens in like cir-
cumstances are so painfully few. Silence now
from quarters that were outspoken in op-
position to racial preference in higher edu-
cation may lead some to infer that self-
interest more than justice was what moti-
vated that earlier concern.
In both spheres-school admissions and
industrial employment-the      same    issues
arise: in the situation of scarce goods, may
one's race count in one's favor: If ever,
when? In Bakke a racially preferential ad-
mission system at the University of Cali-
fornia Medical School at Davis was struck
down, but attention to race in the admis-
sions process was there held permissible
within certain very narrow limits: to advance
the diversity of an entering class, or to
remedy the condition of specific persons who
had been discriminated against by the school
using the racial instrument. Weber is in
many important respects different. Here the
factor of diversity does not enter; here mat-
ters pertaining to intellectual qualifications
are  replaced   by  matters   pertaining  to
seniority. Here the stakes are greater and the
underlying moral issues are presented more
cleanly.
I
This is what happened. Kaiser (Kaiser
Aluminum & Chemical Corporation) and
the union (United Steelworkers of America,
AFL-CIO) sought to increase the number of
minority workers in the skilled crafts at
Kaiser's Grammercy, Louisiana, plant. To
this end, in a 1974 collective-bargaining
agreement, they changed the system where-
by employees would enter on-the-job train-
ing for craft positions. Prior craft experience
was eliminated as a requirement, and en-
