to be "friendly governments" and from what
sources the threats to the "safety of their
people" emanate?
Very frankly, Mr. President, it appears to
me that the text of your address was de-
signed to accord some hope to those who be-
lieve the efforts of Secretary Rogers have

1413
been detrimental to the position of Israel.
and at the same time, designed to offer con-
siderable hope to the Arab nations as to the
ambivalence of this Nation's policy in the
Middle East.
In that regard, this message appears to me
to be much in the same mold of your Novem-
ber 3rd speech on Vietnam, where you were
seeking by less than careful delineation of
policy to allay criticism.
One other portion of your statement that
concerns me is your suggestion that if there
is an imbalance in the "relative strength of
the forces" in the Middle East, that our
Country "will not hesitate to provide arms
to friendly states as the need arises."
In that regard, if an imbalance in arms ex-
ists between Israel and Jordan, would it be
our policy to provide arms to Jordan to re-
dress that balance?
Respectfully yours,
JEROME R. WALDIE,
Member of Congress.
COMMENT ON PRESIDENT'S STATE
OF THE UNION MESSAGE
HON. HUGH SCOTT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
Tuesday, January 27, 1970
Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President, James Res-
ton, of the New York Times, has written a
most provocative article on the Presi-
dent's state of the Union message and
his efforts to reform welfare, foreign
policy, industrial pollution, Federal-
State-local relations and many other
spheres of domestic problems. I commend
this article to the attention of our Na-
tion's legislators and ask unanimous con-
sent that it be printed in the Extensions
of Remarks.
There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:
[From the New York Times, Jan. 23, 19701
WASHINGTON: PRESIDENT NixoN AND THE
NEW AGE OF REFORM
(By James Reston)
WASHINGTON.-President Nixon is bringing
the ship of state back home for repairs. It
will be a long, slow voyage, but he seemed
to be saying In his State of the Union Mes-
sage that the old girl had been battered in
stormy foreign waters too long, and needed
to be tidied up, scraped, painted and re-
modeled for her 200th anniversary in 1976.
It was a magnificent speech; we will find
out later whether it is a policy and who will
pick up the tab. But not since Teddy Roose-
velt have we heard a Republican President
talk so much about reform. Welfare, industry,
the police, and the Federal, state and local
governments are all to be transformed into
a more peaceful, secure, fair, and prosperous
society.
ZIGZAG TO THE LEFT
There was always a question about whether
Mr. Nixon would go to the right or the left
once he was well-established in office. But he
has now at least charted his course and de-
fined his destination. He will zigzag to avoid
the torpedoes and take advantage of the
wind, but his destination is to preside over
the great festival of freedom in 1976, and to
get there from here he must eventually go
to the left.
The surge of reform in America, as Richard
Hofstadter has reminded us, was not always
directed by the Democrats. Though turned



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1414.txt

1414

back temporarily in the twenties, it included
the Administrations of Teddy Roosevelt and
even Dwight Eisenhower and has "set the
tone of American politics for the greater part
of the twentieth century." What Richard
Nixon did in his addreSs to the Congress was
to stake out a place for himself alongside
his two Republican heroes, and try to take
over most of the Democratic issues in the
process.
THE DEMOCRATIC PLIGHT
On the political point, he has clearly made
progress in his first year. He has retained
control of the crime Issue. He has blunted the
peace issue. He has taken the lead in reform-
ing the welfare program, and he is clearly
trying to pin the inflation tail on the donkey.
Moreover, he shored up his position with
the young and the cities in this speech by
trying to take over the pollution issue, while
reassuring the Republicans by promising to
redirect more power to the state and local
governments.
Hubert Humphrey says Mr. Nixon is not
"an artist in politics" but this is a fairly art-
ful if not artistic performance. The Demo-
crats have been talking for years about "re-
ordering the nation's priorities" and "real.
locating its resources," and now the Presi-
dent has challenged them and his own party
to do just that.
This, of course, is only the rhetorical part
of the voyage, and Mr. Nixon's utopian aims
occasionally sounded a little like a tour-
director's dream, but there is clearly nothing
wrong with his objectives that couldn't be
cured by another $10-billion cut in the Pen-
tagon budget plus a good hefty tax rise.
His remarks on the plight of the Negroes
were not exactly an exhaustive account of
the problem; but perhaps the weakest part
of his address was on foreign affairs, which he
will deal with later. He did talk about the
nations of the non-Communist world having
acquired a new "determination to assume
responsibility for their own defense," but
with one or two notable exceptions, this
phenomenon has escaped almost everybody's
else's notice.
Also, he claimed that the result of his new
foreign policy has not been to weaken our
alliances but to give them new life, new
strength, and a new sense of comon purpose.
Again, if this has been the general reac-
tion to the President's decision to cut his
involvement in foreign nations, it has cer-
tainly not received the attention it deserves.
CONSERVATIONIST NIXON
The main thing about the State of the
Union speech, however, is probably what it
tells us about the state of the President. He
is clearly broadening and deepening his phi-
losophy. All the old emphasis is there on
crime, inflation and a balanced budget-and
these gotta bigger hand in the House than
anything else-but he is now thinking in
longer terms about the condition of life in
America.
In fact, he denied Industry's right to pol-
lute the air and waters of the Republic and
threatened them with new regulations and
penalties if they did. More surprising, he
even dared to suggest that wealth was not the
same thing as happiness, and In the Repub-
lican liturgy of the past, this is heresy.
WHAT'S RIGHT WITH AMERICA
HON. CHARLES E. CHAMBERLAIN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 27, 1970
Mr. CHAMBERLAIN. Mr. Speaker,
over the years, I have made many re-
quests to extend remarks and include

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
extraneous material In the CONGRES-
"SIONAL RECORD. However, I cannot recall
an occasion when I have ever before
requested permission to Include the text
of an advertisement, but I am doing so
today.
The current issue of U.S. News & World
Report, February 2, 1970, contains a full
page ad sponsored by Warner & Swasey,
manufacturers of productivity equip-
ment and systems of Cleveland, Ohio,
with a message that appeals to me. The
Warner-Swasey people seek to call at-
tention to what is right about America,
rather than what is wrong about Amer-
ica. This theme is one all of us would
do well to emphasize.
Under unanimous consent I submit the
text of this advertisement, for inclusion
in the RECORD, as follows:
WHAT'S RIGHT WITH AMERICA
Yes, there are dirty plays, but not one has
even approached the performance record of
homey "Oklahoma" or "Fiddler on the Roof".
Foreigners are scornful of our ghettos. Yet
tens of millions are being spent by busi-
nesses to rebuild slums with modern homes,
and the median Negro family income has
risen to $5360 a year and the number earn-
ing $7000 has doubled in ten years.
45 percent of Americans attend church and
70 percent consider religion very important.
More Americans finish high school than is
true of any other nation, and we're getting
ready to improve that even more by special
programs (developed in America) for pre-
school children. And the number of Ameri-
can adults who continue their schooling even
into old age is the wonder of the world.
Book buying has doubled in 10 years-
good books.
50 million Americans donate time and 14
billion dollars every year to charity.
And you can add paragraphs of what else
is good from your own experience.
All of which makes a pretty good national
anthem, doesn't it-a lot healthier than the
sorry blues which too many love to sing.
WARNER & SWASEY.
CLEVELAND.
IN RECOGNITION OF MARTIN
LUTHER KING, JR.
HON. EDWARD W. BROOKE
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
Tuesday, January 27, 1970
Mr. BROOKE. Mr. President, I re-
cently received eloquent testimony to
the fact that Americans of all back-
grounds are willing and anxious that due
recognition be given to the remarkable
goals and achievements of the late Dr.
Martin Luther King.
Anthony Cama is a schoolteacher in
Lynn, Mass. He also serves on the Com-
mittee of Italian Culture for the Order
of the Sons of Italy in America. He has
recognized and nobly advanced the uni-
versal values which Dr. King sought to
realize.
Recently I received from Mr. Cama a
letter enclosing a poem which he had
written and distributed to Sons of Italy
chapters throughout the Nation, and
offering his support for a resolution
which I have submitted declaring the
birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King a
national day of recognition. I ask unani-

January 27, 1970
mous consent that this most moving trib-
ute be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the poem
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:
IMMORTAL TITAN
This eulogy and poetic tribute to martyred
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., one of Ameri-
ca's greatest apostles of brotherhood and
symbol of the American Negro's struggle for
justice and dignity, was composed for the
Sunday Post by a Lynn school teacher, An-
thony Cama, who called the Christian leader
"an immortal Titan in the fight for civil
rights in America."
BLACK ETERNAL FLAME
(By Anthony Cama)
Black is the mourning flag that shrouds this
land,
The torch of freedom lifts its anguished cry,
For Martin Luther King is still of voice and
hand
And storms of sorrow cloud the starlit skyl
Within this nation's heart our millions weep,
For Martin Luther King, a man of fate,
And few shall be the spirits who will sleep
Until each slave has marched through free-
dom's gateI
Let every native son stand up and sing,
America . . . America . .. 0., land of liberty.
Let every churchbell raise its voice and
ring ...
That God bade every man to stand erect and
free.
For Martin Luther King, a black eternal
flame,
Cried out to all the world, be free at last.
Thank God, almighty! Blessed be God's
name...
We shall overcome . . . We are free at last!
MODIFYING       EXISTING MANAGE-
MENT SYSTEMS FOR USE IN EDU-
CATIONAL AGENCIES, OR HOW TO
EAT AN ELEPHANT
HON. DURWARD G. HALL
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 27, 1970
Mr. HALL. Mr. Speaker, last November
Dr. Bruce Monroe spoke before the "Sys-
tems 70 Conference" of the North Ameri-
can Rockwell Corp.
Dr. Monroe's paper, "Modifying Exist-
ing Management Systems for Use in
Educational Agencies," presents an inter-
esting point of view toward solving some
of the problems confronting educators
today.
Dr. Monroe points out that systems
analysis in the area of transportation,
housing and law enforcement, to name
just a few, has resulted in increased
efficiency, while at the same time pro-
viding savings in time and money.
To all who are interested in educa-
tion, and its need for new ideas, I recom-
mend the reading of Dr. Bruce Monroe's
paper.
The paper follows:
MODIFYING EXISTING MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
FOR USE IN EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES OF HOW
To EAT AN ELEPHANT
In keeping with the theme of this con-
ference; "management system requirements
and systems solutions for the next decade;"
in order to analyze requirements of educa-
tional systems, it would be appropriate first
to attempt to predict the nature of society
during the coming decade in order to predict
the type of individual the schools and colleges



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1415.txt

January 27, 1970
of this nation will need to be producing to
further develop that society. Analysis of the
types of educational programs needed to pro-
duce those individuals would then follow.
Finally, the management needs of those pro-
grams would be determined. Since the first
two steps have already been done in other
publications I won't attempt to repeat them
here, but will concentrate on the last two,
educational program development, and man-
agement systems. Also in order to provide a
context in which to organize these remarks
and recommendations, I would like to state
five assumptions about public and private
education, educational systems and the man-
agement of educational systems. Following
these, the specification of educational man-
agement system requirements, educational
program areas needing improvement and
finally two proposed   procedures will be
described.
FIVE ASSUMPTIONS
1. The first assumption concerns the pur-
pose of an educational system. The Constitu-
tion delegates to the States, responsibility for
an educational program to guide and support
regional and local efforts in providing schools
to maximize the development of the individ-
uals experiencing the school's programs. De-
velopment of the individual includes atti-
tudinal, emotional and Interpersonal devel-
opment as well as intellectual skills and the
physical well-being of the student. Schools
exist to produce rationale, responsible, ef-
fective citizens. A recent emphasis has been
to plan educational programs in such a way
that every student, regardless of his so-called
ability, Interest, background, home or in-
come, succeeds in his school experience.
2. A second assumption is that the educa-
tional programs of the 50 States, our pro-
tectorates and territories are amenable to
improvement. By their own statements and
by review of students' reactions to school, it
is clear that there are changes to be made.
750,000 youths a year drop out. Suicide among
students is twice that of out of school youth
of the same age and similar in other re-
spects. Forty types of educational malprac-
tice have been documented and suits have
been filed for damages by parents. Manpower
training programs this year found 30,000
functional  illiterates  with  high  school
diplomas in one review. In a society in which
the knowledge explosion has exceeded the
ability to keep enough factual information
In his head, to perform successfully In our
society, the traditional school program based
on "telling" and "remembering" is no longer
relevant.
The two social institutions most like
schools are monasteries and penal institu-
tions. The monastary, penal institution model
previously appropriate is no longer func-
tional. Schoolmen talk about developing new
types of school programs, new schedules, new
staffing patterns and new ways of teaching.
3. A third assumption is that the local and
state educational programs (for many rea-
sons) are unusually complex enterprises (as
are other forms of public service). Provid-
ing successful, worthwhile experiences for
millions of children from all walks of life
for up to nine hours a day, 200 days a year
is a large-scale, complex, expensive opera-
tion.
4. Another assumption. Although state-
wide, regional and local programs are called
"systems," they operate (for the most part)
In nonsystematic fashion. Their manage-
ment is too often responsive to public pres-
sure and daily problems, rather than being
forward looking and comprehensive. They
have outmoded organizational plans. Little
in the way of modern management systems
has been applied to operation of the state
educational efforts and the local districts
programs.
In the last ten years however, some at-
tempts have been made to apply systems
management techniques to public and pri-

EXTENSIONS OF'REMARKS
vate educational efforts. In November, 1967,
the United States Office of Education called
the first national conference on     System
Analysis in The Educational Environment.
Since that time approximately five hundred
education projects around the country have
attempted (in one aspect of operation or
another) to apply system analysis, operations
research and system development techni-
ques. However, in no case to dote has this
been done in a comprehensive, wide-scale,
thorough fashion across an entire educa-
tional endeavor, as has been recommended
by system analysts.
In other forms of public service; (trans-
portation, housing, law enforcement, public
health and welfare) experience indicates that
operations research, system analysis and de-
velopment and research and development
techniques (as a system approach is vari-
ously called) have been applied with bene-
fits to public service enterprises. Savings in
time, money and increases in efficiency and
satisfaction have been documented in in-
stances where system analysis has been ap-
plied.
To quote Dr. Leon Lessinger, Associate
Commissioner of the U.S. Office of Educa-
tion, "In the same way that planning, mar-
ket studies, research and development, and
performance warranties determine industrial
production and its worth to consumers, so
should we be.able to engineer, organize, re-
fine, and manage the educational system to
prepare students to contribute to the most
complex and exciting country on earth."
5. A final assumption is that an investment
in educational system analysis and develop-
ment would bring a guaranteed return to
tax payers. Documentation of the United
States Chamber of Commerce cites an an-
nual loss of over $600 million dollars to per-
sonal income and the gross national product
as the result of the lost earning power of
% of a million dropouts.
To apply system management practices
and system analysis and development tech-
niques to education; nationwide, statewide
and regionally Is an enterprise of a large or-
der of magnitude, to use an analogy, ap-
proximately equal to eating an elephant sin-
gle-handedly. However, what evidence there
is indicates it would be justified (in terms
of the returns to the individual and the econ-
omy), to invest up to 600 million dollars a
year in this effort. One percent of the yearly
budget for education equals $500 million, and
any corporate board of directors would rec-
ommend an investment in research and de-
velopment of over 1 percent.
The final assumption, in summary is that
the educational enterprise needs to begin
investing more heavily in applying system
analysis and development procedures and
particularly management systems.
What then would be the requirements of
such educational management systems?
REQUIREMENTS FOR AN EDUCATIONAL
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
To be of maximum usefullness and adapt-
able to the wide variations of practice in edu-
cational agencies, an educational manage-
ment system must at least:
Insure an adequate flow of information to
the learner as well as to decisionmakers
affecting what the learner will experience.
Increase the visibility of learning progress
to the learner, parents and school staff,
Heighten the shared accountability for
learning progress among parents, the learn-
er and the school staff,
Have minimum      response times between
learner diagnosis and the learning prescrip-
tion,
Make cost-effectiveness proposals about al-
ternative courses of action,
Interface approximately twelve other pub-
lic information systems including the local
library, the Department of Labor job bank,
the Educational Research Information Cen-

1415
ters, the Instructional Objectives Exchange
and others,
Facilities individualization of the curricu-
lum and instruction,
Speak a language that young children can
understand,
Make multi-variate probability statements
about alternative courses of action for the
learner,
Be at least regional in scope to allow re-
gional program emphasis to be modified,
Account for the influence of home, peer
group and other social agencies on learning
progress,
Be sufficiently standardized in language to
allow transfer of learners from school to
school and region to region,
Emphasize problem     solving  skills and
learning ability not the acquisition of factual
information.
Now then, to what areas of educational
programs could these educational manage-
ment systems be most profitably applied?
Like any complex endeavor, certain aspects
of the operation of an educational program
are more efficient than others. Below are two
lists indicating well managed and less well
managed program functions:
TYPICALLY EFFICIENTLY MANAGED
Ensuring physical welfare and safety of
student.
Transporting students.
Attendance accounting.
Scheduling students and teachers for group
activities.
Dispensing instructional information.
Maintaining facilities.
Recording and reporting operational infor-
mation.
Fiscal accounting and payroll.
Purchasing and warehousing.
Devoting personal staff time.
NEEDING MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT
Comprehensive planning.
Specifying student and program perform-
ance objectives.
Routine, thorough diagnosis of student.
Measuring student and program accom-
plishments.
Reallocating budgets by program.
Comparing cost/effectiveness.
Monitoring and evaluating staff productiv-
ity.
Individualizing or modifying curriculum
and instruction.
Ensuring quality of product.
Analyzing wider range of program alter-
natives.
Assessing student data profiles.
Allocating appropriate resources in instruc-
tion.
Matching student schedule to needs.
Providing relevant parent and public in-
formation.
It is recommended that educators respon-
sible for the above needy functions capitalize
upon management systems developed In the
operational programs and the research and
development procedures of the aerospace,
communication and other scientific indus-
tries.
Existing systems and procedures would
then be adapted to the unique requirements
of educational programs.
The obvious next question then Is, "How
do you proceed to eat an elephant?" A friend
tells me you do it by, "taking one bite at a
time."
The remaining remarks will describe two
procedures, (one short term and one long
term) which I propose as a reasonable first
bite and long term procedure for eating the
whole elephant. What I will propose first is
rigorous application (on a national, state,
regional and local basis) of management sys-
tems technology, and eventually a system
analysis and development of the national
educational enterprise at a cost of approxi-
mately 60 million dollars of investment per
year for the next ten years.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1416.txt

1416

TAKING THE FIRST BITE; A SHORT-TERM AP-
PROACH TO REDEVELOPING EDUCATIONAL SYS-
TEMS: ADAPTING EXISTING MANAGEMENT SYS-
TEMS TO EDUCATIONAL SYSTEMS
The following steps represent the major
milestones in a procedure to adapt an exist-
ing management system (of the appropriate
scope and complexity) to an educational pro-
gram.
1. Review the long range and intermediate
objectives of the program in operational
terms.
2. Analyze functions and tasks required
to accomplish the objectives.
3. Separate management functions from
total functions.
4. Rank order management functions In
terms of complexity and difficulty to per-
form.
5. Review management procedures now in
use or available for use.
6. Assess and allocate internal capability
to carry out selected management functions.
7. Locate additional capability, contract
for services as required.
8. Vary selected parameters of existing sys-
tems to accommodate the specific manage-
ment functions.
9. Create new procedures as appropriate.
10. Plan phased change-over from exist-
Ing procedures.
11. Assess system and sub system func-
tions and modify as necessary to point of
diminished return.
A word of caution, however, about the
above procedure. As experienced educators
are painfully aware, the commitment to in-
vest in a change process must permeate the
entire environment before the change proc-
ess can hope to succeed.
A LONG TERM APPLICATION OF OPERATIONS RE-
SEARCH, SYSTEM ANALYSIS AND SYSTEM DE-
VELOPMENT    TO   THE   DEVELOPMENT    OF
NATIONAL, STATE    AND  LOCAL  EDUCATION
SYSTEMS
In the last three years a national program
has come into existence as a result of the
funding of Congress and foundations in-
terested in education. The project is entitled
CAPE, the Committee on Assessing the Prog-
ress of Education and has recently has been
absorbed as a project by the Educational
Commission of the States (the ECS). The
ECS is a non-profit organization with 43
member states with a membership of gover-
nors, chief state school officers, legislators
and others concerned about education. The
current budget of CAPE is 21 million dol-
lars and the 1970 budget is projected at $4
million. The procedure for assessing the
progress of education in the United States
consists of sampling students from 700
schools chosen to be representative of all
the schools in the United States. Using
samples of students of approximately 20 to
30 thousand, student achievement is meas-
ured in the areas of citizenship, science,
writing, math, music, literature, etc. in three
year cycles. The results of student achieve-
ment are summarized regionally (rather than
by state or local districts) so that there can
be no comparisons possible between specific
district or schools. Pre-school and out of
school youth are assessed as well as in-school
age youth.
The proposal herein suggested that this in-
formation be used as background informa-
tion to begin a national systems analysis of
selected areas of school functioning, those
that CAPE finds to be less successful.
Since the CAPE project is currently being
carried on by the Educational Commission
of the States, it might well be appropriate
to organize through that agency eight re-
gional analyses of educational needs. If that
organization found it inappropriate, another
suitable  pseudo-governmental, non-profit

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
public agency would be utilized to act as
policy maker and program manager of this
effort, much as NASA coordinates the Space
Program.
How the program might proceed would be
as follows. As CAPE indicates regional varia-
tions in the effectiveness of school programs
to teach certain subject matter, those pro-
grams that are found to be least successful
in any region would be the target of compre-
hensive system analysis within that region.
Assuming there was some persistent problem
areas (for instance, reading) in several re-
gions; a cooperative task force made up of
system analysts from several regions could
analyze and suggest modifications in reading
practices within that total area. In time, by
pooling the results of these system analyses
(conducted in the separate regions) a com-
prehensive analysis of the entire educational
effort in the Nation and the States would be
accomplished. This could be done in approxi-
mately a three to four year time period.
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF EDUCATION
SOLUTIONS
Assuming a thorough-going system an-
alysis of the sort that made the Moon Pro-
gram successful, a concentrated development
phase would then be appropriate. Utilizing
the existing (or certain of the existing) re-
gional educational laboratories and bolster-
ing their capability with additional resources
from foundations, private industry, the arts
and sciences; educational systems would be
evolved, developed, field tested, implemented
broadly, monitored and improved over time.
Such a development phase could reasonably
require several years and hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars.
The model for system development within
the regional efforts would follow a typical
system analysis and development model of
the sort attached.
Concern obviously needs to be given (at
all points in this process) to ensure that
local districts not lose autonomy and were
given opportunity to modify the basic pro-
gram to meet local requirements. What is
not being proposed is a national curriculum
with a standardized educational program
such as is typical in certain European coun-
tries; rather a national effort in system anal-
ysis and development which would make
available a range of alternatives a highly
reliable, educational system among which
local and regional programs would originally
choose and subsequently modify. Using the
elephant analogy again, there are lots of
ways to eat an elephant and local districts
would be encouraged to choose those ways
which are most comfortable, with proviso
that they eat the entire elephant and within
a reasonable period of time.
The mass media today is full of pronounce-
ments by educators and others concerned
with education about the need for account-
ability and guaranteed performance in edu-
cation. It is reasonable to assume that while
education can become accountable to the
same extent that other public service agen-
cies are accountable, it is also reasonable to
offer them the experience and services of
other large complex organizations that have
been over similar ground previously to help
avoid reinventing the wheel. It is in that
frame of reference that these proposals are
offered. Private industry, foundation-sup-
ported research and development and other
public service agencies have proven their
ability to perform successfully in equally
large, complex, problematic enterprises. As
consumer of the educational product of the
national educational effort and as tax payers
who support it (if not as parents, uncles,
grandparents and neighbors)-we have a
responsibility and a right to demand sound
educational management.

January 27, 1970
niflATIONARY TRENDS
HON. HUGH SCOTT
OP PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE SENATE OP THE UNITED STATES
Tuesday, January 27, 1970
Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President, the Pitts-
burgh Post-Gazette recently published a
most informative and interesting edito-
rial on administration attempts to curb
spiralling inflationary trends. I com-
mend this to the attention of the Senate
and ask unanimous consent that it be
printed in the Extensions of Remarks.
There being no objection, the editorial
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:
A SHOWDOWN ON SPENDING
Senate approval of an appropriations bill
$1.3 billion above Mr. Nixon's request for the
Health, Education and Welfare Department
defies a  promised   presidential veto   and
creates a major political issue for this year's
congressional elections.
President Nixon objects to the additional
spending on the ground that it obstructs his
efforts to reduce federal spending to control
inflation. Congressional opponents     argue
that they are trying to "reorder priorities";
that is, to transfer to domestic needs some
of the money cut out of the defense budget.
Actually the issue isn't that simple. It
would be perhaps if the President had at-
tempted to cut back on HEW spending, par-
ticularly for education. The fact is, however,
that the President's requests for HEW are
700 million higher than President Johnson's
budget called for and $2.1 billion higher
than spending last year.
So it isn't as if the President were trying
to get inflation under control at the expense
of domestic programs. He just isn't willing
to spend as much as a high-powered educa-
tion lobby has pressured Congress into.
In order to make the increased education
spending attractive to congressmen, lobby-
ists urged that It be sweetened by boosting
to $585 million the amount to be spent on
te so-called "federally impacted" school
districts, which are scattered over 355 con-
gressional districts.
Although Democratic and Republican ad-
ministrations have attempted to curb or
end this program as an indefensible boon-
doggle, it is now so thoroughly woven into
the fabric of federal aid to education as to
be inextricable. Under this unconscionable
grab, the nation's richest county, Mont-
gomery, Maryland, where many congress-
men live, got $5.7 million in 1968 while the
100 poorest counties in the program got
$3.2 million.
The irony of this program lies in the fact
that communities vie endlessly for federal
installations to boost their local economies
and once the installation Is obtained, then
claim federal school subsidies because they
have to educate the children of the federal
employes who move in. That way, they have
their cake and eat it, too.
Not all of the increased funds Congress
has voted for HEW go into the federally im-
pacted program, of course, but the Nixon
administration voiced defensible objections
in each category of spending.
That will make little difference because
of the emotions aroused by the issue. Presi-
dent Nixon has chosen a politically unpop-
ular issue for a showdown with Congress.
Seeming to be against federal aid to health,
education and welfare (while actually only
disagreeing over the amounts involved), is
like being for sin or against motherhood.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1417.txt

January 27, 1970
For that reason, we would not be sur-
prised to see Congress override the Presi-
dent's expected veto. Members of his own
party are keenly aware of the political im-
plications in an election year and he can
anticipate some GOP defections.
Even so, we think the issue should be
clearly understood. If it is, we believe many
Americans will give the President high
marks for courage and integrity in trying
%o bring inflation under control by restrict-
Ing federal spending.
FREEDOM IN DEED
HON. JOHN WOLD
OF WYOMING
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 27, 1970
Mr. WOLD. Mr. Speaker, in 1880, a
band of men, women, and children, seek-
ing to exercise their right to follow the
religious creed of their choice, left the
security of their homes and followed in
the track of the Mormon pioneers.
Rather than continuing to Utah, they
decided to make their homes and rear
their families in the beautiful mountain
enclosed Star Valley of western Wyo-
ming.
They named their new settlement
Freedom, in frank recognition of the
fundamental value they cherished and
for which they cut their old ties and
roots to move to a rugged new land.
For 90 years they have labored to make
their home a productive and secure place
where they could exercise their beliefs
secure in the knowledge they could pass
on their values to their children. In five
wars their young men journeyed far
from the mountains and valleys of home
to defend the liberties they loved so well
and knew so intimately. Today many of
their sons are engaged in the struggle in
Vietnam.
Throughout the Nation there is dis-
sent over the whys and wherefores of
Vietnam, but the citizens of Freedom ac-
cept the task as another responsibility of
liberty. They are matter-of-fact about
their support for the policies of our
President.
Therefore, you can imagine their dis-
may when they learned that their home
was to be the site of a tri-State mora-
torium rally that would denounce Amer-
ica and her policies.
Despite their dismay they did not react
with violence or anger, more with sorrow.
They would not deny their fellow Amer-
icans the opportunity to express dissent
even if it was shame they felt about the
actions of the dissenters.
Said the citizens of Freedom:
Such a moratorium as you plan to hold
and has been held in the past we feel will
only give aid and comfort to the enemy.
The statement noted that the town of
Freedom is "not in sympathy with you
In this action. We will not support it, and
to be very frank with you, we do not
want it in our town."
Darrell Jenkins, a Freedom resident
said:
We recognize the right of people to dissent
and to demonstrate but let them do it some-
where else, where the people want them to.
In short, their actions have been in the

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
best traditions of the values on which
this Nation was founded. I believe their
behavior to be a valuable object lesson
for my fellow Members and the citizens
of America.
Accordingly, I ask that an article about
Freedom from the Casper Star-Tribune
of January 13, 1970, be printed in the
RECORD:
"LET THEM DISSENT SOMEWHERE ELSE":
FREEDOM
(By Jeanes Wagner)
LoVELL.-Which was to Freedom?
The people of Freedom, Wyoming located
in Star Valley, have reason to wonder.
On Christmas Day, they learned that their
town had been selected for a tri-state mora-
torium rally on Feb. 15 by the Vietnam War
Moratorium Committee at the University of
Wyoming.
No one in Freedom had been notified of
the plans at that time and still have not,
they claim.
