the regulation about line 5 in the official
identification papers Soviet citizens must
carry.
On that line all Soviet citizens are identi-
fied by nationality-Russian, Uzbek, Ukraln-
Ian, whatever-all but Jews. They are identi-
fied always as Jews, a clear statement to all
Soviet people that their Government re-
gards Jews as outside and separate, where
anti-Semitism needs them.
Whatever the Soviet Union or any other
country decides about repeal, Vice President
Quayle has dragged into the open the dirty
story of the use of the United Nations ma-
chinery to spread bigotry and try to destroy
Israel.
In so doing he has honored his country.
himself, the supportive Bush-Baker diplo-
macy-and given the nations a chance to
undo a great wrong.

964



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0967.txt

January 31, 1.990                    CO
REPEAL "ZIONISM EQUALS RACISM"
(By William Korey)
Nothing has damaged the moral image of
the United Nations in its nearly 45-year his-
tory as much as the "Zionism equals
racism" equation of November 10, 1975.
With "Zionism" as a code word for Jews,
bigots everywhere could give expression to
their Jew-baiting and derive legitimacy from
the infamous UN General Assembly resolu-
tion.
What reinforces the overt threat to Jews
is the fact that the "racism" of the equation
has been formally determined by the world
body to be not merely evil incarnate, but il-
legal as well. In a key UN treaty, "racism"
has been held to be beyond the pale of civil-
ized society. Contracting parties are called
upon to ban it and its manifestations. Thus
"Zionism," too, can be considered as an ille-
gal excrescence, to be excised from the body
politic.
Andrei D. Sakharov, quite rightly, has
called the General Assembly resolution an
"abomination," but the international com-
munity has made little effort to reverse the
resolution. Nonetheless, a growing number
of countries, including a number in the
Third World, recognize the provocatory
equation violates the spirit and purpose of
the UN Charter. With next year marking
the 45th anniversary of the Charter, it is
high time to move toward a reversal.
A move to rescind the resolution will
present an excellent opportunity to test the
Arab and Muslim states' professed interest
in Middle East peace. Unwillingness to sup-
port removing this blight from the UN
books would eliminate any pretense that
these countries are prepared to live in peace
with Israel.
Critical to the success of such an initiative
is the attitude of the Soviet Union. Moscow
played a crucial, if not the central role, in
pushing through the defamatory resolution.
Its client states in the Third World were in
the forefront of the lobbying effort. And
the Soviet Union, more than any other
country, used the resolution to Justify a vir-
ulent internal anti-Semitic propaganda cam-
paign masquerading as anti-Zionism.
That campaign ended in 1986. Mikhail
Gorbachev's "new thinking" treats the
primitivism of the propaganda with con-
tempt. A prominent ideological champion of
Soviet glasnost like the Party ideological
journal, Sovietskala kultura, recently ex-
posed the propaganda of the "stagnation
era" as bordering on Hitlerism. Comparison
was made between Mein Kampf and the
works of a notorious anti-Zionist writer who
had been earlier hailed by the Kremlin.
Only the substitution of the word "Zionism"
for "Jewry" (in Hitler's book) kept the
Soviet writing from being plagiarism.
Moreover, Moscow has carefully eschewed
earlier anti-Israel hostility. A deepening dip-
lomatic relationship has been accompanied
by widening commercial and cultural ex-
changes. At the UN, the vulgarity of Soviet
broadsides in a previous epoch has been re-
placed by, for example, a votr f abstention
on the perennial question of idrael's creden-
tials.
Still, anti-Zionism appears to remain a
component element of Soviet ideolo ;y. Very
recently, after a Jewish group in Moscow
announced the formation of a "Zionist
Union," Pravda responded with a blistering
assault which included the charge that "Zi-
onism is racism." As legitimization for this
dangerously incendiary blast, the Commu.
nist Party organ referred to the infamous
UN equation.

NGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

For Pamyat and other populist anti-Se-
mitic elements in the USSR, Pravda's com-
ments on Zionism could only serve as a wel-
come cue to continue their propaganda out-
rage. They, too, mask their anti-Semitic big-
otry by targeting the enemy as Zionism, not
Jewry. It is precisely the broadening aspects
of this populist anti-Semitism that help
spark today's great Jewish exodus.
Will the Soviet President continue with
anti-Zionist ideology that undermines his
"new thinking," especially on UN matters?
Or will he. in the spirit of glasnost, dump an
obscene equation that provides comfort only
to the bigoted? How Moscow responds can
well determine whether the initial image of
the UN itself can be restored.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S.J. Res. 247. Joint resolution relat-
ing to emergency aid to Panama; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
RELATING TO EMEROENCY AID TO PANAMA
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President,
shortly after the United States invad-
ed Panama over a month ago, Presi-
dent Bush stated his Intention to lift
the sanctions imposed against the cor-
rupt, drug-running regime of Manuel
Noriega. Yet today they remain in
place.
While I have made clear my reserva-
tion about the United States invasion
of Panama, I believe we have a deep
responsibility-and that it is in our
own fundamental interest-to move as
quickly as possible to restore economic
and political stability in Panama. And
yet, our sanctions remain In place
while we debate the appropriate level
and type of aid to the new Endara gov-
ernment.
Today, I am introducing a Joint reso-
lution that will immediately lift all
current sanctions against Panama and
I hope it will gain swift and unani-
mous passage.
The United States should move
quickly to implement a generous and
well-designed package of aid to repair
the damage wrought by the Noriega
regime and to reconstruct the Pana-
manian   economy. The     first step
toward this end-the step that I am
proposing we undertake immediately-
is to lift all sanctions imposed against
Panama during the Noriega regime. It
has been more than a month since the
United States Invaded Panama and
toppled its corrupt dictator. Yet a vari-
ety of sanctions still remain in place
for no reason other than the slow pace
of our bureaucracy. We must first lift
these sanctions before we can begin to
consider serious proposals to rejuve-
nate Panama's economy.
The Endara government has re-
quested emergency economic aid and
negotiations to reduce trade barriers
and the Bush administration is cur-
rently discussing this package with the
Endara government and the Congress.
I hope that a generous package will be
agreed upon. It is important the assist-
ance we ultimately offer be carefully
designed to build a healthy and inde-
pendent economy. Handouts won't

965

work. The creation of Jobs will. Our
assistance must be designed to put the
Panamanian people to work, encour-
age United States investment, and in-
crease trade between our nations.
In the meantime we can move to
help Panama begin to rebuild itself In
a simply way-by lifting of sanctions
immediately. The current legal re-
quirements for the lifting of sanctions
by the United States against Panama
and   other  restrictions  on  United
States assistance are complex and
have already resulted in unnecessary
delays of United States assistance to
Panama. Right now there are emer-
gency moneys and supplies that could
be being used for the Panamanian
people but for the existence of the
sanctions. Time Is precious for people
who have lost their Jobs and homes
and there is no reason for them to
wait any longer for the assistance they
deserve.
Accordingly, the bill I am submitting
today removes these restrictions im-
mediately without the need for com-
plex and lengthy findings. First, the
bill waives with respect to Panama for
a period of 24 months that provision
of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986 re-
garding tariff treatment of products of
uncooperative major drug-producing
or drug-transit countries.
Second, the bill waives with respect
to Panama for a period of 24 months
that provision of the Anti-Drug Abuse
Act of 1986 terminating the sugar
quota for any country which has a
government "involved In the trade of
illicit narcotics or is failing to cooper-
ate with the United States in narcotics
enforcement activities."
Third, the bill waives with respect to
Panama for a period of 24 months the
Brooke/Alexander amendment, which
prohibits assistance to countries 6
months or more in arrears in pay-
ments to the United States.
Fourth, the bill waives with respect
to Panama for a period of 24 months
those provisions of the International
Narcotics  Control Act prohibiting
United States assistance to any coun-
try listed as "major illicit drug produc-
ing country or drug transit country."
Last, the bill repeals those provi-
sions  of the Foreign    Operations,
Export Financing, and Related Pro-
grams Appropriations Act of 1990
which directly restrict United States
assistance to Panama including, for
example, such assistance as Commodi-
ty Credit Corporation financing and
Export-ImporL Vcnk financing.
If Congress will pass this bill it will
save itself and the administration con-
siderable time in making the findings
necessary to lift the sanctions under
current law.
The prompt termination of sanc-
tions against Panama and the waiver
of restrictions on aid to Panama will
advance Panama's political, economic,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0968.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

and democratic reforms, and in so
doing fulfill our responsibility to and
recement our friendship with this im-
portant Central American neighbor.
United States interests are vast in
Panama. We should lose no more time
in moving swiftly to restore economic
prosperity and stability to the Pana-
manian people who have suffered for
so long.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
passing this resolution as soon as pos-
sible and help put Panama back on
the road to prosperity in the post-Nor-
lega era.
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 16
At the request of Mr. CRANSTON, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. WIRTH] was added as a cosponsor
of S. 16, a bill to require the executive
branch to gather and disseminate in-
formation regarding, and to promote
techniques to eliminate, discriminato-
ry wage setting practices and discrimi-
natory wage disparities which are
based on sex, race, or national origin.
S. 397
At the request of Mr. DIXON, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
[Mr. BUMPmS] was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 397, a bill to provide assist-
ance   to  small communities    with
ground water radium contamination.
S. 713
At the request of Mr. LoUT, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia [Mr. RocxEnLLm   was added as
a cosponsor of S. 713, a bill to provide
for establishment of a revolving loan
fund for the development of wayports
and to establish a commission to pro-
pose areas suitable for the location of
such wayports.
S. 814
At the request of Mr. DOMENIcI, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Mr. DURENBERGER] and the Senator
from Washington [Mr. ADAMS] were
added as cosponsors of S. 814, a bill to
provide for the minting and circula-
tion of one dollar coins, and for other
purposes.
S. 1006
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mr. CRANSTON] was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1006, a bill to encourage
innovation and productivity, stimulate
trade, and promote the competitive-
ness and technological leadership of
the United States.
S. 1330
At the request of Mr. HELMS, the
names of the Senator from Texas [Mr.
GRAMM] and the Senator from Nevada
[Mr. REID] were added as cosponsors
of S. 1330, a bill to provide protections
to farm animal facilities engaging in
food production or agricultural re-
search from illegal acts, and for other
purposes.

S. 1430
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
[Mr. BREAUX] was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1430, a bill to enhance nation-
al and community service, and for
other purposes.
S. 1600
At the request of Mr. FORD, the
names of the Senator from Louisiana
[Mr. BREAUX] and the Senator from
Alaska [Mr. STEVENS] were added as
cosponsors of S. 1600, a bill to enhance
the safety of air travel through a more
effective Federal Aviation Administra-
tion, and for other purposes.
S. 1664
At the request of Mr. HEINZ, the
names of the Senator from Iowa [Mr.
HARKIN] and the Senator from Michi-
gan [Mr. LEVIN] were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1664, a bill to establish a
congressional commemorative medal
for members of the Armed Forces who
were present during the attack on
Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941.
S. 1752
At the request of Mr. HEINZ, the
name of the Senator from Indiana
[Mr. COATS] was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1752, a bill to exclude the Social
Security trust funds from the deficit
calculation and to extend the target
date  for   Gramm-Rudman-Hollngs
through fiscal year 1997.
S. 1823
At the request of Mr. BENTSEN, the
names of the Senator from Nebraska
[Mr. EXON] and the Senator from
Michigan [Mr. RIEGLE] were added as
cosponsors of S. 1823, a bill to amend
the Social Security Act to increase the
amount of earnings exempt from re-
duction under the retirement test
under title II of such act.
8. 1893
At the request of Mr. LAUTENBERO,
the name of the Senator from New
York [Mr. MOYNIHAN] was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1893, a bill to reau-
thorize the Asbestos School Hazard
Abatement Act of 1984.
S. 2006
At the request of Mr. GLENN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada
[Mr. REID] was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2006, a bill to establish the De-
partment of the Environment, provide
for a global environmental policy of
the United States, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2019
At the request of Mr. SYMMs, the
names of the Senator from Georgia
[Mr. FOWLER], the Senator from
Oregon [Mr. HATFIELD], the Senator
from North Carolina [Mr. HELMS], the
Senator from South Dakota [Mr.
PRESSLER], and the Senator from Wyo-
ming [Mr. SIMPSON] were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2019, a bill to amend
title XVIII of the Social Security Act
to eliminate the reimbursement differ-

ential between hospitals in different
areas.
S. 2035
At the request of Mr. BINGAMAN, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia [Mr. BYRD] was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2035, a bill to establish a
Commission to examine the advisabil-
ity of lengthening the school day and
school year in U.S. public elementary
and secondary schools.
S. 2041
At the request of Mr. SYMMs, the
names of the Senator from North
Dakota [Mr. BURDICK] and the Sena-
tor from North Carolina [Mr. HELMS]
were added as cosponsors of S. 2041, a
bill to amend title XVIII of the Social
Security Act to provide uniform na-
tional conversion factors for services
of certified registered nurse anesthe-
tists.
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 212
At the request of Mr. DANFORTH, his
name was withdrawn as a cosponsor of
Senate Joint Resolution 212, a joint
resolution designating April 24, 1990,
as "National Day of Remembrance of
the Seventy-Fifth Anniversary of the
Armenian Genocide of 1915-1923."
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 229
At the request of Mr. CRANSTON, the
names of the Senator from New York
[Mr. D'AMATO], the Senator from Mas-
sachusetts [Mr. KXNNEDY], the Sena-
tor from Kentucky (Mr. FORD], and
the Senator from Idaho [Mr. SyMms]
were added as cosponsors of Senate
Joint Resolution 229, a joint resolu-
tion to designate April 1990 as "Na-
tional Prevent-a-Litter Month."
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 231
At the request of Mr. GRAssLEY, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
[Mr. BOSCHWITZJ, the Senator from
Rhode Island [Mr. PELL], the Senator
from Montana [Mr. BURNS], the Sena-
tor from Nebraska [Mr. EXON], the
Senator from Mississippi [Mr. COCH-
RAN], the Senator from North Dakota
[Mr. BURDICK], the Senator from New
Hampshire [Mr. HUMPHREY], the Sen-
ator from Oklahoma [Mr. BOREN], the
Senator from Alaska [Mr. MURKOW-
SKI], the Senator from Illinois [Mr.
SIMON], the Senator from Idaho [Mr.
MCCLURE], the Senator from New
Jersey (Mr. BRADLEY], the Senator
from Minnesota [Mr. DURENBERGER],
the Senator from Nebraska [Mr.
KERREY], the Senator from Idaho [Mr.
SYMMs], the Senator from Arkansas
[Mr. BUMPERS], the Senator from New
Mexico [Mr. DOMENIcI], the Senator
from South Dakota (Mr. DASCHLE],
the Senator from Utah [Mr. HATCH],
the Senator from Louisiana [Mr.
BREAUX], the Senator from Rhode
Island [Mr. CHAFEE], the Senator from
Wisconsin [Mr. KOHL], the Senator
from Pennsylvania [Mr. HEINZ], the
Senator from California [Mr. CRAN-
STON], the Senator from Washington

January 31, 1990



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0969.txt

January 81, 19.90               CO
[Mr. GORTON]. the     Senator from
Michigan [Mr. LEVIN], the Senator
from California [Mr. WILSON], the
Senator from Colorado [Mr. WIRTH],
the   Senator  from   Hawaii   [Mr.
INOUYE], the Senator from West Vir-
ginia [Mr. ROCKEFELLER], the Senator
from Louisiana [Mr. JOHNSTON], the
Senator from Montana [Mr. BAUCUS],
the Senator from     Arkansas  [Mr.
PRYOR], the Senator from Maryland
[Ms. MIKULSKI], the Senator from
Alabama [Mr. HEFLIN], the Senator
from Vermont [Mr. LEAHY], the Sena-
tor from Alabama [Mr. SHELBY], and
the Senator from Connecticut [Mr.
LIEBERMAN] were added as cosponsors
of Senate Joint Resolution 231, a Joint
resolution to designate the week of
June 10, 1990, through June 16, 1990
as "State-Supported Homes for Veter-
ans Week."
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 235
At the request of Mr. HUMPHREY, the
name of the Senator from Idaho [Mr.
Symms] was added as a cosponsor of
Senate Joint Resolution 235, a joint
resolution proposing a constitutional
amendment to     limit congressional
terms.
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 238
At the request of Mr. SARBANES, the
names of the Senator from Nevada
[Mr. REID], the Senator from Michi-
gan [Mr. LEVIN], the Senator from
Maine [Mr. COHEN], the Senator from
Utah [Mr. GAIN], the Senator from
Iowa [Mr. GRASSLEY], the Senator
from Alaska [Mr. MURKOWSKI], the
Senator   from   New    York   [Mr.
D'AMATO], the Senator from Oklaho-
ma [Mr. BOREN], the Senator from Ar-
kansas [Mr. BUMPERS], the Senator
from Arkansas [Mr. PRYOR], the Sena-
tor from New Jersey [Mr. LAUTEN-
BERG], the Senator from North Dakota
[Mr. CONRA, the Senator from Dela-
ware [Mr. ROTH], the Senator from
Virginia [Mr. WARNER], and the Sena-
tor from California [Mr. CRANSTON]
were added as cosponsors of Senate
Joint Resolution 238, a joint resolu-
tion to designate the week beginning
March 5, 1990, as "Federal Employees
Recognition Week."
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 241
At the request of Mr. D'AMATO, the
names of the Senator from Pennsylva-
nia [Mr. SPECTER], the Senator from
California [Mr. WILSON], the Senator
from Oregon [Mr. PACKWOOD], the
Senator from New Mexico [Mr. Do-
MENICI], and the Senator from Ala-
bama [Mr. SHELBY] were added as co-
sponsors of Senate Joint Resolution
241, a Joint resolution to designate the
week of April 29, 1990, through May 5,
1990, as "Jewish Heritage Week."
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 34
At the request of Mr. BREAUX, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
[Mr. COCHRAN] was added as a cospon-
sor of Senate Concurrent Resolution
34. a concurrent resolution confirming

NGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

that it is the responsibility and the
desire of Congress to develop a com-
prehensive telecommunications policy,
which includes determining the extent
of participation of regional Bell hold-
ing companies in providing advanced
telecommunications     services   and
equipment.
SENATE      RESOLUTION       238-AU-
THORIZING THE TAKING OF A
PHOTOGRAPH IN THE SENATE
CHAMBER
Mr. MITCHELL submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 238
Resolved, That paragraph 1 of rule IV of
the Rules for the Regulation of the Senate
Wing of the United States Capitol (prohibit-
ing the taking of pictures in the Senate
Chamber) be temporarily suspended for the
sole and specific purpose of permitting the
National Geographic Society to photograph
the United States Senate in actual session
on a date and time to be announced by the
majority leader after consultation with the
Republican leader.
SEC. 2. The Sergeant at Arms of the
Senate is authorized and directed to make
the necessary arrangements therefor, which
arrangements shall provide for a minimum
of disruption to Senate proceedings.
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED
CLEAN AIR ACT AMENDMENTS
BAUCUS (AND OTHERS)
AMENDMENT NO. 1223
Mr. BAUCUS       (for  himself, Mr.
CHAFEE and Mr. BREAUX) proposed an
amendment to the bill (S. 1630) to
amend the Clean Air Act to provide
for attainment and maintenance of
health protective national ambient air
quality standards, and for other pur-
poses, as follows:
On page 229, after line 5, add the follow-
ing new subsection (c) and redesignate sub-
sections (c) and (d) as subsection (d) and (e)
respectively:
"(C) VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS EMIs-
SIONS FROM AEROSPACE COATINGS AND SOL-
VENTs.-Within two years after the enact-
ment of this subpart, the Administrator
shall publish a control techniques guideline
for all aerospace coating and solvent appli-
cations (including military and commercial
applications), after consultation with the
Department of Defense, the Federal Avia-
tion Administration, the National Air and
Space Administration, and the affected in-
dustry. In evaluating VOC reduction strate-
gies, the guidelines shall take into account
the applicable requirements of section 112
and the need to protect stratospheric
ozone."
NOTICES OF HEARINGS
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
Mr. BUMPERS. Mr. President, I
would like to announce for the public

that a hearing has been scheduled
before the Subcommittee on Public
Lands, National Parks and Forests of
the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources.
The hearing will be held on Febru-
ary 22, 1990, beginning at 2 p.m. The
purpose of the hearing is to receive
testimony on two measures currently
pending in the subcommittee. The
measures are:
S. 1578, to provide for the creation
of an independtnt Historic Preserva-
tion Agency and a National Center for
Preservation  Technology, and   for
other purposes; and
S. 1579, to amend the National His.
toric Preservation Act, the Historic
Sites Act, the Archaeological Re-
sources Protection Act, the Abandoned
Shipwreck Act, and certain related
acts to strengthen the preservation of
our historic heritage and resources,
and for other purposes.
The hearing will be held in room
SD-366 of the Senate Dirksen Office
Building in Washington, DC. Because
of the limited time available for the
hearing, witnesses may testify by invi-
tation only. However, anyone wishing
to submit written testimony to be in-
cluded in the hearing record is wel-
come to do so. Those wishing to
submit written testimony should send
two copies to the Subcommittee on
Public Lands, National Parks and For-
ests, SD-364, Washington, DC 20510.
For further information regarding
the hearing, please contact Beth Nor-
cross of the subcommittee staff at
(202) 224-7933.
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES
TO MEET
COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENTAL AFFAILS
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Governmental Affairs be au-
thorized to meet on Wednesday, Janu-
ary 31, at 10:30 a.m., for a hearing on
the nomination of George W. Haley,
to be Commissioner, Postal Rate Com-
mission.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. With-
out objection, it is so ordered.
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, I.N7j URBAN
AFFAIRS
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on   Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs be allowed to meet
during the session of the Senate,
Wednesday, January 31, 1990, at 10
a.m. to conduct oversight hearings on
the Resolution Trust Corporation.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. With-
out objection, It is so ordered.
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Armed Services be author-
ized to meet in executive session on
Wednesday, January 31, 1990, at 2



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0970.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

p.m., to discuss the nomination of
Victor Stello, Jr. to be the Assistant
Secretary of Energy for Defense Pro-
grams.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. With-
out objection, it is so ordered.
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
PRESERVING AMERICA'S
HERITAGE
e Mr. BUMPERS. Mr. President, I
rise today to congratulate the Bureau
of Land Management's Eastern States
Office on its tremendous success in im-
plementing a project to modernize the
Federal lands and minerals records.
Few people are aware of how many
lands records, including patents and
tract books, have accumulated since
the beginning of westward expansion.
Keeping track of land boundaries and
ownership was essential to the devel-
opment of this country. The Eastern
States Office maintains these records
and makes the information available
to the public.
Constant use of the books contain-
ing the land titles resulted in rapid de-
terioration of these valuable and his-
torical records. In 1988, the Eastern
States Office initiated a study to de-
termine the best possible method for
preserving the information for future
generations.  "Preserving  America's
Heritage" is the records project which
will enable the Bureau of Land Man-
agement to store information on discs,
each of which will hold 36,000 patents.
Information which at one time would
take hours to retrieve will be immedi-
ately accessible once the records con-
version project !s complete.
As chairman of the Public Lands
Subcommittee, 1 am particularly inter-
ested in maintaining the original pat-
ents and title documents of historical
land exchanges. Access to these histor-
ic records is needed to determine the
Federal Government's claim to lands
and minerals.
I am pleased to report that Arkansas
land records are being used for the
prototype in this project. In a matter
of weeks, 323 volumes of Arkansas pat-
ents-163,000 documents-will be fully
automated.
I congratulate Curt Jones and his
staff on their fine work. Not only is
this new system saving valuable time
and money, it is also preserving our
past. Future use of the automation
system will provide efficient and equi-
table  management    of our   public
lands.e
MOSCOW MONITOR PROJECT
e Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, dra-
matic and historic changes in United
States refugee policies concerning
Soviet refugees greeted fiscal year
1990. This is the year the doors to

Soviet emigration opened and the
doors to the United States closed.
When the administration r inounced
the new U.S. refugee policies on Sep-
tember 18, Congress had only 15 days
notice of the very serious changes in
our refugee policies. There were* a
myriad of unanswered questions and
unaddressed issues, and still today the
same questions remain unanswered
and issues unaddressed.
Therefore, in conjunction with the
Union of Councils for Soviet Jews, I
have established the Moscow monitor
project wherein the preeminent Soviet
refusnik, Leonid Stonov, will provide
first-hand information on the work-
ings and effects of the new policies.
Since our first contact in mid-De-
cember, Mr. Stonov has informed me
of very serious problems concerning
Moscow processing. In response to
these contacts, I have forwarded a
letter to Counsel General Max Robin-
son, of the American Embassy in
Moscow, which discusses these prob-
lems.
I would like to thank my colleagues
who have already expressed interest in
this project and again invite further
participation. It is my hope that with
our continued vigilance, these prob-
lems will be addressed and freedom
will speedily arrive for those still
trapped in the Soviet Union.
I ask that the letter I referred to be
printed in the RECORD.
The letter follows:
U.S. SENATE,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, January 26, 1990.
MAX N. ROBINSON,
Counsel   General  American   Embassy
Moscow.
DEAR GENERAL ROBINSON: I am writing to
advise you of a program I have implemented
to monitor the effects of the recent changes
in United States policy regarding Soviet ref-
ugees for fiscal year 1990.
When   the Administration  announced
these new policies on September 18, Con-
gress had only 15 days notice of what I con-
sider to be serious changes in our refugee
policies. There were and are too many unan-
swered questions and unaddressed concerns
surrounding the policies. Therefore, in con-
Junction with the Union of Councils for
Soviet Jews, I established a formal monitor
project wherein the preeminent Soviet re-
fusnik, Leonid Stonov, will provide first-
hand insight and information on the effects
of the policies. I have invited other Senators
to Join me in this effort.
Mr. Stonov has formed a committee to
monitor and report on Moscow processing as
well as the condition of human rights in the
Soviet Union-particularly the rising tide of
anti-semitism. To date. Mr. Stonov and the
Committee have reported the following
areas of concern:
1. Because the Soviets will not allow non-
governmental organizations to operate in
Moscow, refugees have no source of guid-
ance or information on the adjudication
process or resettlement in the United
States. As a result, applicants are helpless
as they attempt to understand the Interview
process and those granted refugee status
must wait months while the Counselor Dp-

partment searches to secure sponsors in the
United States. Reports indicate that at least
a six-month backlog has been created and is
increasing. To date, there is no indication
that volunteer agencies will be allowed to
operate in Moscow.
2. Refusal rates are reported to be be-
tween 23-50 percent. These rates were not
acceptable for Vienna processing and are no
more acceptable for Moscow processing.
Further, there is a great Inconsistency in
the adjudication process. When even the
most outspoken and visible activists are
being denied refugee status, it is impossible
to discern any logic or consistency in the
process.
3. There is a proliferating anti-semitic
movement throughout the Soviet Union.
With the growing instability in the country,
Jews and other religious minorities are in
greater danger and are even more vulnera-
ble to persecution. Moreover, President Gor-
bachev has taken no action to condemn this
growing movement.
These issues are the cause of great con-
cern to me and we must work to solve these
critical problems. As a member of the Judi-
ciary Committee, I have pledged to main-
tain vigilance over the new U.S. policies. It
is my hope that by sharifig my concerns
with you, we can work together in order to
maximize freedom during this volatile time.
Sincerely,
CHARLES E. GRAssLEy,
U.S. Senator.*
PRESERVING AMERICA'S
HERITAGE
o Mr. PRYOR. Mr. President, recent-
ly the Eastern States Office of the
Bureau of Land Management at the
Department of the Interior unveiled
its  new   land  records   automation
project.
This project, entitled "Preserving
America's Heritage," marks the begin-
ning of the automation of almost 9
million Federal land conveyance docu-
ments maintained by the Eastern
States Office-the largest land title
office in the world.
I am proud that the land records of
my State were selected for the proto-
type for this project. Former Arkansas
Land Commissioner Bill McCuen. now
our secretary of state, as well a. our
current commissioner of lands, Charlie
Daniels, were actively involved in this
project from the outset.
The land title records housed at the
Eastern States Office in some 10,000
huge books have been extensively uti-
lized over the years by Federal and
State agencies, title insurance compa-
nies, industry, and by citizens tracing
their genealogies. These books, many
of them years old, have been literally
loved to death. Automation will both
preserve these important documents
and make them even more readily
available for use.
Mr. President, not only am I proud
of the fact that my State was chosen
to be the "pioneer" in this effort, but I
am also proud of the work of scores of
dedicated Federal employees at the
Eastern States Office, as well as the

968

January ,3,1, 1990



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0971.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

Office of Scientific and Technical In-
formation  at the   Department of
Energy who have lent their expertise
to the project.
Recipient of one of only 15 awards
given in June 1989 by the President's
Council on   Management Improve-
ment, the Eastern States Office is evi-
dence of the caliber of individual that
Federal service continues to draw
today.
As chairman of the Senate Govern-
mental Affairs Subcommittee on Fed-
eral Services, Post Office and Civil
Service, I am daily apprised of per-
formance   throughout the   Federal
Government workplace. The Interior
Department can be especially proud of
this team of Federal employees.
I know Arkansas is now the envy of
other States who wish to have their
land records-such an integral part of
our heritage-automated for future
use. Let me assure my colleagues that
they could ask for no better group
than Kurt Jones and the Easter States
Office to undertake this important
mission.*
IN    RECOGNITION       OF    THE
