Beaver Creek, Kans., October 18, 1868.
SERVICE.
With regiment in the Army of the Potomac, March, 1862, to May, 1864, and
as aid-do-camp to General Sheridan to October 3, 18I.1, during which period
lie participated in the following battles, actions, etc.: Malvern Hill, Phila-
mont, Union, Barbee's Crossroads, Upperville, Fredericksburg, Richards
Ford, Stoneman's raid, Beverly Ford, Benton's Mill, Aldic. and Upporville,
Va.; Gettysburg, Pa.; Williamsport, Md.; Boonsborough, Md.; Brandy Sta-
tion, Mine Run campaign, Culpeper, Raccoon Ford, Ely's Ford, Parker's
Store, Wilderness. Tod s Tavern, Beaver Dam Station, Yellow Tavern,
Meadow Bridge, Mechanicsville, Haw's Shop, Cold Harbor. Malvern Hill,
Trevelyan Station, St. Maryls Church, siege of Petersburg Berryville, Win-
chester, Fisher's Hill, and many other small skirmishes inVirginia.
In Kansas, Tennessee, and Arkansas, October, 180. to March, 1866; in Texas
to December, 1866; regimental recruiting service, January to July, 1867; in
Kansas to April, 1869; in Indian Territory to August, 1871; in Texas to March,
188; in Nebraska and Indian Territory to December, 1892, and on duty as di-
rector of the Subschool of Cavalry at Fort Riley, Kans., to August, 1897; com-
manding regiment and post of Fort Sam Houston, Tex., to May, 1898; com-
manding brigade and division, Fourth Corps, to November, 1898; commanding
brigade in Cuba to January, 1899, and Department of Puerto Principe to July,
1819; on leave, July 31, 1899, to date of retirement.
WAR DEPARTMENT, ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
Washington, March 27, 1900.
Statement of the military service of Sainuel Ovenshine, of the United States
Army, compiled from the records of this office.
Born in Pennsylvania and appointed from Maryland. Second lieutenant,
Fifth Infantry, August 5, 1861; first lieutenant, September 25, 1861; captain,
March 30,1864; major, Twenty-third Infantry. July 10,1885; lieutenant-colonel
Fifteenth Infantry, January 31, 1891; colonel Twenty-third Infantry, April
26, 1895, brigadier-general, United States Volunteers, August 13, 1898; honor-
ably discharged, April 17, 1899; brigadier-general, United States Volunteers,
April 17, 1899; honorably discharged, October 20, 1899; brigadier-general,
United States Army, October 18, 1899; retired, October 19, 1899.
SERVICE.
Principally with his regiment on the Western frontier from 1861 to 1898,
and since the beginning of the war with Spain, commanding a brigade tinder
orders for and en route to Manila to July 31,1898; commanding the First Bri-
gade, Second Division, Eighth Army Corps, operating against the insurgent
forces in the Philippines to October, 1898, and the Second Brigade, First Divi-
sion, Eighth Corps, to June, 1899; sick and on sick leave to date of retirement,
WAR DEPARTMENT, ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
Washington, March 27, 1900.
Statement of the military service of Daniel W. Burke, of the United States
Army, compiled from the records of this office.
Private, corporal, and sergeant, Second Infantry, June 10, 1858, to Novem-
ber 8, 1862; second lieutenant, Second Infantry, July 18.1862; first lieutenant,
July 2, 1863; captain, Forty-fifth Infantry, January 22, 1867; transferred to
Fourteenth Infantry, July 22, 1869; major, Twenty-third Infantry, August

1900.

3597



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0642.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

MARCH 31,

13, 1894; lieutenant-colonel Eleventh Infantry. December 2,1897; colonel Sev-
enteenth Infantry, September 8, 1899: brigadier-general October 20, 1899.
Brevetted captain, major, and lieutenant-colonel for gallant and meritori-
ous services during the rebellion.
SERVICE.
Was wounded in the battles of Wilsons Creek, Missouri, August 10, 1861;
Gaines Mill, Va June '7, 1862; and Gettysburg, Pa., July 2, 186. Awarded a
medal of honor for gallant and distinguished serviceat Shepherdstown Ford,
Va., September 10, 1862.
After the civil war served continuously with his regiment on the Western
frontier, and from July, 1898, to September, 1899, in Puerto Rico.
'WAR DEPARTMENT, ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
Washington, .arch 27, 1900.
Statement of the military service of rdgar R. Kellogg, of the United States
Army, compiledfrom the records of this office.
Born in New York March 25, 1842, and appointed from the Army.
VOLUNTEER IRECORD.
Sergeant and sergeant-major, Twenty-fourth Ohio, April 22, 1891, to July
23, 1861; second lieutenant, Twenty-fourth Ohio, July23,1861; resigned, Octo-
ber 28, 1861.
REGULAR ARMY RECORD.
Private and sergeant-major, First Battalion Sixteenth Infantry, Novem-
ber 29, 1861, to August ]. 1862; second lieutenant, Sixteenth Infantry, April 7,
1862; first lieutenant, May 3, 1862; captain, February 16, 1865; transferred to
Twenty-fifth Infantry, September :l, 1866; transferred to Eighteenth In-
fantry, April 26, 1869; major, Eighth Infantry, December 26, 1 8; lieutenant-
colonel Tenth Infantry, September 16, 1892; colonel Sixth Infantry, June 30,
1898; brigadier-general, volunteers, October 6, 1898; honorably mustered out,
February 214, 1899; brigadier-general, United States Army, December 5,1899:
retired, becember 16, 1899.
He received the brevet rank of captain December 31,1862, "for gallant and
meritorious service in the battle of Murfreesboro, Tenn.," and major Septem-
ber 1, 1864, "for gallant and meritorious services during the Atlanta cam-
paign and in the battle of Jonesboro, Ga."
SERICE..
While in the volunteer service he was on duty with his regiment in West
Virginia. Since his appointment in the Regular Army be served with his
regiment in the armies of the Ohio and Cumberland until severely wounded
in the battle of Jonesboro, Ga., September 1,1861, Absent, sick, on account of
his wounds until January, 1865, when he rejoined his regiment.
Since the close of the war of 1861 he has served principally with his regi-
ment in the Southern States until 1879; on the Western frontier until 1892; in
California to 1894, and in Oklahoma to April, 1898 (with the exception of four
years' absence on recruiting service). -
Since the beginning of the war with Spain he has served with his regiment
in Florida from April to June 14, 1898, and in the Cuban campaign until July
1,1898, when he was wounded in the battle at San Juan, Cuba; absent, sick,
on account of his wounds and on sick leave to March 12, 1899; commanding
his regiment at Fort Sam Houston, Tex., to May 17, 1899, and en route to Ma-
nila until June 1, 1899, when he left the regiment at Honolulu, Hawaiian
Islands, sick, and returned to the United States; on sick leave from June 13
to November 12, 1899, and awaiting orders to December 16, 1899.
WAR DEPARTMENT, ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
Washington, Miarch 27, 1900.
Stateinent of the military service of Gilbert S. Gsrpenter, of the United States
Armny, conipiled from the records of this office.
Second lieutenant, Nineteenth Ohio Infantry, April 22, 1861; honcrably
mustered out, August 31, 18111; private, sergeant, and first sergeant of Com-
T any F, Second Battalion, Eighteenth United States Infantry, September 14,
861, to July 11, 1862; second lieutenant, Eighteenth Infantry, June.9, 1862;
first lieutenant, November 25,1862; captain, December 21,1866; captain, Forty-
fifth Infantry, January 22, 1867; transferred to Fourteenth Infantry, July 22,
1869; major, Fourth Infantry, March 1, 1894; lieutenant-colonel Seventh In
fantry. July 7, 1897; colonel Eighteenth Infantry, Juno 20, 189; brigadier-
oeneral of volunteers, September 21, 1898, to May 12, 1899; brigadier-general,
United States Army, December 5, 1899; retired, December 28, 1899.
SERVICE.
With his regiment in the armies of the Ohio and Cumberland from 1861
until severely wounded in December, 1862; absent, wounded, and on de-
tached service to 1865; with his regiment, principally at Western posts, to
1898, and in the Santiago campaign from April to August, 1898; commanding
a brigade in the Fifth Corps to September, 1898, and in the Fourth Corps to
April, 1899; commanding his regiment en route to and in the Philippine
Islands until December 24, 1899, date of his acceptance as brigadier-general,
United States Army. Retired, December 26,1899, at his own request, for over
thirty years' service.
Statement of aiounts appropriated for coast fortifications.
Fiftieth Congress (Democratic) ----------------------.......... $5,205,594.00
Fifty-first Congress (Republican) ...-.............................. 8,007,738.00
Fifty-skcond Congress (Democratic) ------ - --------------------- 4,944,331.00
Fifty-third Congress (Democratic).. -----------_-------------- 4,331,561.50
Fifty-four th Congress (Republican) ---------..................... 16,895,029.00
Fifty-fifth Congress (Republican) -------  - ------------- 22,962,294. 00
Expended out of national defense fund provided by Fifty-fifth
Congress ......................................................... 12,865,840.60
Mr. BELL. How much time have I left, Mr. Chairman?
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman has forty-seven minutes.
Mr. BELL. I yield to the gentleman from Michigan [Mr. Wm.
ALDEN SMITH] five minutes.
Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. Mr. Chairman, the gentleman
from Tennessee [Mr. RICHARDSON], in undertaking to justify the
free trade in wool under the Wilson law, and in undertaking to
criticise the effects of the Dingley tariff upon the wool industry,
read into the RECORD this morning some statements of advanced
prices of wool in Europe, saying that the advanced prices in our
country were not proportionate.
Now, I desire to invite the attention of the gentleman from
Tennessee to some figures in the United States Statistical Abstract,

just published, and which I hold in my hand. I find that in the
last year of the Administration of President Harrison the value of
the sheep in the United States was $125,909,264; that immediately
upon the enactment of the Wilson law, giving us free trade in
wool, the value of the sheep in the United States dropped from
$125,000,000 down to $66,685,767 in 1895, and just as soon as the
Dingley law was enacted and there was placed around the wool
industry of this country the protection that has always been ac-
corded to it by the Republican party, the value of the sheep of
the United States mounted from $66,000,000 to $107,697,530 in 1899,
and a less number of sheep than in 1895. 'Thus, Mr. Chairman, I
am able to show from the records of the Government-facts which
are indisputable-that the value of the sheep of the United States
was nearly doubled when protected under the rates of the Dingley
tariff.
As to the effects of the Dingley law upon commercial develop-
ment and the prosperity of our country, I do not believe there
can be any question but that it has been healthful and that there
are evidences upon all sides of great prosperity; and in order that
I may place upon the record some evidence of the prosperity that
we have enjoyed under the Dingley tariff in the State of Michigan
and are now enjoying, I send to the Clerk's desk and ask to have
read a bulletin from the bureau of labor and industry in the State
of Michigan, prepared by Hon. Joseph L. Cox. labor commissioner,
this year. I ask unanimous consent that this document may be
read and published in the RECORD. It completely negatives the
proposition on the other side of the Chamber that we have not
had prosperity under the Dingley law.
Mr. RICHARDSON. You said I denied that there had been
prosperity.
Mr: WM. ALDEN SMITH. That is what you said.
Mr. RICHARDSON. I deny it.
Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. You undertook a few moments ago
to say here that the prices in Europe had advanced in greater pro-
portion than they had in this country under the Dingley tariff -
Mr. RICHARDSON. I did not say that, and the gentleman
ought not to ialte any such statement.
Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. Do you admit that we have pros-
perity here?
Mr. RICHARDSON. I have not said anything on that subject.
Mr. WA. ALDEN SMITH. Do you deny that we have pros-
perity here?
Mr. RICHARDSON. Oh. you can not bulldoze anybody.
Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. If you do not admit the fact, then
I propose to read and put in the RECORD the proof of the fact.
Mr. RICHARDSON. Time was yielded to the gentleman by
this side of the House-
Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. Certainly you do not wish to avoid
the fact?
Mr. RICHARDSON. There have been no facts stated.
Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. I wish to read some facts to the
gentleman.
Mr. RICHARDSON. You have made a statement which I
challenge. You said that I had made some statement about the
prosperity of the country. I made no such statement. My point
is that I made no such statement as that which the gentleman in
his elegant language has denounced as a lie. I wanted simply to
say that I had not said what he attributed to me.
Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. I have the highest respect for the
gentleman from Tennessee, and would not intentionally misrep-
resent him. I do not wish to put into the gentleman's mouth
anything which he did not utter; but I understood him to say
that the Dingley law had brought no prosperity to the wool in-
dustry of the United States.
Mr. RICHARDSON. I said that the Dingley law had not in-
creased the price of wool in this country correspondingly with the
increase abroad. That was my statement.
Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. Then I say that the value of the
sheep in the United States has nearly doubled under the Dingley
law.
Mr. SNODGRASS. Will the gentleman state the number of
sheep?
ir. WM. ALDEN SMITH. Yes; I have the figures here.
Mr. RICHARDSON. Have you the price of sheep abroad as well
as here?
Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. I have not.
Mr. RICHARDSON. If you wish to publish that, I have no
objection.
Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. I ask unanimous consent that what
I have sent to the desk be read or, if my time will not permit the
reading, that it be published in the RECORD.
The CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentleman from Michigan
[Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH] has expired. He asks unanimous con-
sent that the paper which he has sent to the Clerk's desk may be
incorporated with his remarks in the RECORD. Is there objection?
There was no objection.
Mr. BELL obtained the floor.

3598



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0643.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. Will not the gentleman from Colo-
rado [Mr. BELL] allow me time to have this paper read?
Mr. BELL. No, sir; I have not the time.
The document presented by Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH is as fol-
lows:
BULLETIN FROM THE BUREAU OF LABOR AND INDUSTRIAL STATISTICS-
MICHIGAN'S INDUSTRIAL CONDITION.
The following is taken from the introductorypages of Labor Commissioner
Cox's annual report to the governor, which is now being placed in the hands
of the State printer for immediate publication:
At no time within its history has the State of Michigan enjoyed the same
general condition of prosperity in all branches of industry and pursuits of
employment that it did during the year 1899.
MANUFACTORIES.
Her manufactorles of all kinds, and in most instances and in nearly all
localities, have been run to their full capacity, while not a small per cent
have been in operation on "overtime," to meet urgent orders and increasing
demands for their products.
LABOR AND WAGES.
Our laborers, both skilled and manual, have been very generally employed
at fair and improving wages, and, as a matter of fact, there has been a great
shortage of common labor in many parts of the State; so much so that it has
materially interfered with work upon railroad construction and in the woods
and mines, notwithstanding the fact that increased wages were offered.
Especially has there been a scarcity of carpenters, masons, and builders'
employees, while not a few other trades have at times reported a shortage
of men:
REAL ESTATE.
Real estate has shown improved activity, and many sales have been re-
ported at advancing prices on both city and farm property, while general
building is progressing in every part of the State.
LAKE TRAFFIC.
Our lake traffic for the year made a good showing, as have all means of
railroad and rapid transit, and many miles of new electric and steam rail-
roads have been built during the year, or construction commenced, and the
companies generally make favorable reports. While we have no mean3 of
knowing, only from general' observation and reports, we believe that our
telephone property has nearly doubled within the past two years.
MINERAL RESOURCES.
- Michigan's rich mineral resources-copper, iron, etc.-have been very ex-
tensively opened up. and millions of dollars have been cleared from our min-
ing interests through the sales of ores and stock during the past year. But
our lumber interests are naturally decreasing, from the.disappearance of
heavy timber, yet Michigan enjoyed a large lumbering business during 1899.
Her salt interests increased materially, and further prospecting promises to
develop new salt blocks in localities where it had hardly been expected.
MICHIGAN COAL.
There has been a most wonderful development of her soft-coal beds, which
has been somewhat retarded by the lack of miners and mine labor, though
to-day there are something like twenty shafts in operation, producing the
very highest grades of steam coal and employing several thousand men,
where there were but two or three practical coal mines in Michigan two
years ago..
MARL DEPOSITS.
Many large and valuable deposits of marl, from which can be produced the
very highest grades of cement, have been discovered, while in several in-
stances they have been successfully developed to the extent of most pros-
perous manufacturing, several factories now being in the process of erection.
It is very probable that in no distant future Michigan will lead in the pro-
duction of cement, as nearly all of her inland lakes contain valuable marl de-
posits in paying quantities, while the most of the marl is of the best grade.
Fortunately. in numerous instances the required clay for cement manufac-
ture is found in close proximity to the marl.
BEET SUGAR.
To-day Michigan has nine large sugar-beet factories in operation, produc-
ing a most excellent grade of beet sugar, that were not in existence three
years ago, and all seem to have the brightest prospects ahead, while their an-
nual contracts for sugar beets provides another branch of industry for her
farmers.
AGRICULTURE.
Her agriculturists have prospered far better within the past two years
than some time formerly, and though the price of grains have fluctuated, and
at times been lower than might have bee-, expected, our farmers seem to
have bettered their condition through the raising of stock, wool, poultry,
dairy products, and means of special farming.
MORE FACTORIES, MORE CAPITAL, MORE EMPLOYEES.
In the canvass of nearly 5,000 factories of this State, just concluded by the
State factory inspectors, it was determined that 545 of them had increased
their actual capital invested $6,531,884 during the year 1899, an average amount
of increase for each institution of $11,985 active capital. In 1,382 factories of
those canvassed there were found to be employed a total of 24,262 more em-
ployees than during the year 1898, an average increase in each of these facto-
ries of 17.6 per cent. It was also estimated that 74 per cent of these factories
were able to pay their employees weekly, 12 per cent monthly, and 14 per cent
semimonthly. Seventy-four per cent of these factories reported an increase
of business over 1898.
WAGES ADVANCING.
The average daily wages, considering all the employees found at work in
the factories of 1899, of which all grades are included, was $1.39 per day, while
the same average in 1898, taken in the same manner and including the same
employees was $1.37 per day. While the general labor canvass of the State
has not been fully computed, it is very evident that the State wage will be
even higher than it was in 1898, though exact figures will be given within a
few days.
ORGANIZED LABOR.
From trade-union sources, through their several State and local secre-
taries and officers, we learn that these champions of wages and organized
friends of labor are in a prosperous and growing condition and that increases
in pay are being reported in various places with brightening prospects for
still greater increases. Nothing is more sensitive to changing times than the
wage scale, and an improvement in this is generally the last thing secured or
expected.
Mr. BELL. Mr. Chairman, I was in hopes that this appropri-
ation would go through without precipitating any political debate;
but as we are now engaged in such debate I wish to put myself

on record as saying that the extravagance of this Administration
has no parallel. And I do not say it because this is a Republican
Administration, but because events establish the charge. The Ad-
ministration before it may have gone along the same lines, but
this one has surpassed all others. I care not from what Adminis-
tration extravagance comes, I condemn it, and every man on this
floor ought to condemn it. Now, if the gentleman from Indiana
[Mr. HEMENWAY] is really anxious for an item of extravagance, I
will give him one. With the very beginning of the Administra-
tion, immediately after the election, the newspapers stated, and I
suppose correctly, that Mr. HANNA, the chairman of the national
Republican committee, came here and insisted that we sriould'
have a great inaugural ball in the new Library building. The
Senate absolutely. refused to permit an inaugural ball to take
place in that great Library building. Then Mr. HANNA. so the
press of this city said, went to the Secretary of the Interior and
said to him, "We want an inaugural ball in the Pension Office
of the United States." The Secretary of the Interior said, "Yes,
you may have it." Then he'said, I II want possession of the Pen-
sion Office that we may properly decorate it, that we may have a
becoming inaugural ball for President McKinley." It was con-
ceded.
The employees of that office, numbering hundreds, were given
leave, with pay, for ten days, and after the inaugural ball it took
days for the force to get the furniture and everything in place
again. Not only the papers of this city but the papers of the
country stated these facts. The Star, of this city, as I recollect
it, interviewed Mr. Murphy, the Commissicner of Pensions, and
said, "The people of the United States would like to know what
the expense of that ball to the people of-this country has been."
Mr. Murphy, over his signature, published in the Star, as I re-
member it, a statement saying, "1 can not give you the whole
expense. I can not give you the wear and tear and the cost of
cleaning up, but 1 can say to you that the salaries of the employe6§
who were laid off during that time cost this Government $70,000."
Now, you may call that extravagance or economy. From that
day until this, I want to say that the extravagance here has beeu
in keeping with the beginning, and it is something that must be
stopped. I do not care what the name of the Administration is,
it is so unnatural and so reckless that this whole machinery is
honeycombed from the sills to the garret with wanton extrava-
gance. Coining before our committee, the Commissioner of Pen-
sions, Mr. Evans, said he could lay off a hundred clerks in thl
Pension Office and not injure the service one particle. Pension
Commissioner Evans says that he has on his roll a surplus of
worthless men to the number of 100 whom he could put out of
office and not injure the public service.
He not only said that, but he said that there were men there so
worthless that they were really in the way; that they could hardly
get to the office. It came to our committee that in the Treasury
Department they had any number of men who were practically
worthless. It not only came to us about these two Departments,
but the chairman of the Committee on the Post-Office and Post-
Roads, in one of his reports on the Loud bill, says that from his
investigation a private individual could undoubtedly run the Post-
Office Department of this Government on the appropriation and
realize a surplus of thirty to forty million dollars a year instead
of a deficit of from $8,000,000 to $12,000,000.
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE.
The committee informally rose; and Mr. LOVERING having
taken the chair as Speaker pro tempore, a message from the Senate,
by Mr. PLATT, one of its clerks, announced that the Senate had
passed the following resolution; in which the concurrence of the
House of Representatives was requested:
Senate concurrent resolution 40:
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives con cur -ing), Thatin the
enrollment of the bill H. R. 7941, "An act making appropriations for the dip-
lomatic and consular service for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901," the
Clerk of the House of Representatives be directed to omit the word "Ot-
tawa," in line 22, page 11, of the engrossed bill.
AMENDMENT TO DIPLOM1ATIC AND CONSULAR APPROPRIATION BILL.
Mr. HITT. Mr. Speaker, I ask the consent of the House that
the resolution just reported be taken up and acted upon at once.
In listening to the reading of the resolution members must have
observed the necessity for immediate action.
Mr. RICHARDSON. What is the resolution about?
Mr. HITT. It is to correct a word in the diplomatic and consu-
lar appropriation bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the reso-
lution.
The resolution as set forth in the above message from the Senate
was read.
Mr. HITT. I move the adoption of the resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the present
consideration of the resolution?
There was no objection.
The resolution was agreed to.

1900.

3599



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0644.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

MARCn 31,

FORTIFICATIONS APPROPRIATION HILL.
The Committee of the Whole resumed its session.
Mr. BELL. Now, Mr. Chairman, you may go into any depart-
ment of this Government where you have a friend, and he will
point out to you where there are untold leaks and money ex-
pended for which the people of the United States do not get
value received. You can come to the contingent expenses of Con-
gress, and you will find that you can lop off many thousands of
dollars in a year. Money is constantly being filched from the
people of the United States without their knowledge and applied
to pexsonal as well as public purposes. When it comes to a pub-
lic servant having his face shaved and his boots blackened at the
public expense, when it comes to his being furnished with medi-
cines, lemons, apollinaris and mineral waters atthe public expense,
and having himself hauled to and from this Capitol at public
expense, I say it is filching the money from the people of the
United States, and that you and I are not justified in sitting here
and seeing it go on.
Mr. DALZELL. My friend will not insist that any such thing
occurs at this end of the Capitol.
Mr. BELL. I will say to the gentleman that we often get credit
for it. The other day I saw the statement in a newspaper from
my district saying that the members of Congress got their faces
shaved, their boots blackened, and their heads rubbed at the ex-
pense of the people working for a living throughout the country.
[Laughter.] I wrote the editor that in this House we did not
receive these perquisites; that we had a great many things to
answer for, but not that; but I sent him the report of the applica-
tion of the contingent fund of another Chamber and allowed him
to draw his own conclusions.
And while we are talking for the good of the order to-day, I
want to say to you that you are not justified and I am not justi-
fied in sitting here and saying that one body or the other of this
Congress has the right to expend the people's money without
limit, or constitute itself into a House of Lords, without you and
I know ,vhere it goes or enter our protest against the abuse. Do
not tell me that an executive officer of this body or the one at the
other end of this building has the right to have a line of carriages
drive up here and take us from here to our residences and from
our residences back at the public expense. You might as well
stick your hand into the Treasury of the United States and pull
out the actual cash.
Now, if my friends say that is economy. then I say that I do not
know the meaning of wanton extravagance. It is not only ex-
travagance, but it is criminal. Read some of the reports under
the head of "Contingent expenditures." I have no doubt we could
find a good many unjust and unauthorized items that could be
traced to our doors. Not only that, but I do not want my friends
to say that I am responsible for these great expenditures that we
are now making in the War Department. I do not refer to this
bill, because this is a coast-defense bill and the expenditure should
have been made regardless of the war.
I was not one of the very belligerent fellows in the days of ex-
citement here. I was not rearing and pitching to go to war. I
never wanted any Philippine war, so far as I was concerned.
When I get ready to rear and scramble for war, I will be Ynan
enough to offer to take up a gun and go along with the boys on
the field. I have always objected to the idea of so conducting
what you call the accidents of war, which are not accidents, as to
increase our expenditures to this enormous sum.
Now, I do not claim to be responsible for the war in the Philip-
pines. I believe it is owing to a lack of diplomacy that that war
is now going on. I believe that if at the time we went to the
Philippine Islands we had come up like men, and had acted toward
the Filipinos as we did toward the Utes, or the Cheyennes, or the
Comanche Indians, and conferred with their chieftains or leaders,
everything would have been all right and there would never have
been a gun fired.
But as soon as Aguinaldo learned of the conflict he pronounced it
a mistake, not intentional on his part, and insisted upon a confer-
ence. Our officers said, "We will accept nothing but an uncondi-
tional laying down of your arms." Aguinaldo said, "What are
you going to-do? Thatis what we want to know." GeneralOtis
refused to tell him what he was going to do, but demanded that
he lay down his arms at our feet and say, "Now, do with us
what you will; we are at your mercy." We never demanded that
of an American Indian. We never demanded that of any people
except the Filipinos. We fired the first gun, and we have been
firing ever since. I believe it was a mistake. I believe that with
diplomacy that could have been avoided.
Now, sir, we are in this expensive turmoil, and I have never
withheld my support from anything or from any item that was
necessary to carry on the Government according to the ideas of
those in control. I do not think that I have the right to do it. I
think if we have a government of majorities, and the majority of
the people declare for one party and policy, it is the duty of every
member of the minority to see that they have a fair opportunity

to try their policy; that they have a fair opportunity to put it in
force, and let the people judge of the wisdom of it in the future.
We have done that, and, having done that, we are not respon-
sible for what is going on. The ideas of the majority and minority
of this House are as different as night and day. One says, "These
are our lands and property, and we must keep them; we will
keep them." The other says, "We do not want them; we can not
own a people against their consent under the regis of our Consti-
tution; we want the convenience of trade; we want shipping con-
veniences; we want trade favors; but we want to make you re-
sponsible and hold you responsible for your own government and
for your own destiny."
With our policy we do not need your great army; with your
policy the Arny will never be less than it is to-day. IntheUnited
States a soldier, in times of peace, costs about $1,000 a year. You
can figure the difference between 25,000 soldiers and 100,000 sol-
diers without any trouble in times of peace, and may double and
quadruple it in times of war.
Now, our friend, Mr. SHITH of Michigan, is speaking about the
increased price of sheep and wool and such matters and the
causes of the rise; they always become confusing. Such argu-
ments are illogical; there is nothing in them. These things vi-
brate on account of the evolution of time and changing condi-
tions, and they are unaccountable from any single cause; but
when you talk about the value of sheep, the same reasoning would
apply to cows, chickens, etc.; and if the McKinley Administra-
tion doubled the price of sheep, I might tell my farmer friends
that it also doubled the price of fence-wire nails. If it doubled
the price of wool, I want to say it also doubled the price of iron
and steel products; it has doubled the price of a thousand and one
things.
-The culmination of trusts under this Administration has doubled
the price of a thousand and one things. One thing is going up
and another thing going down; and every one who has come into
contact with the stock business knows that J. Sterling Morton,
Secretary of Agriculture, reported a decline in the stock business,
and the stock began to rise as the report showed that we were
short in the United States over 8,000,000 head.
Last year Mr. Mulhall, in one of his exhaustive articles, takes
up everything in America and shows our progress. He shows
where we have progressed all along the line until he comes to
stock, and he says that we have declined in a very few years 25
per cent. While we have increased in other things, he puts great
stress upon the fact that the people of the United States have
declined in tie stock business 25 per cent below normal. That is
because the ranges have been fenced in, because we have taken
the herds out of the neutral strip, and the great ranges of the
West have been taken up and cultivated.
I do not care to go into this further. What I desired to talk
about was the general proposition of the extravagance of the Gov-
ernment. It can not run much longer as it has run without a
great national scandal overtaking us. The thing is now reck-
lessly-absolutely recklessly-run from the highest to the lowest
Department. Men in office are acting as though they own the
Government, instead of being its servants and in the employ of the.
Government. They are entitled to nothing except what the law
gives them for their services, and I care not whether that reaches
into Mr. Cleveland's Administration, into Mr. Harrison's Admin-
istration, Mr. McKinley's Administration, or anybody's to follow.
I am ready to join any party in this House in insisting that not a
dollar here or elsewhere shall be expended except as the law re-
quires, whether it is for my convenience or for yours.
Now, Mr. Chairman, I desire to yield the balance of my time to
the gentleman from Massachusetts [Mr. FITZGERALD].
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. The chairman of the
Committee on Appropriations, in charge of this fortification bill,
stated a few moments ago that as a matter of general policy the
Democratic party had failed to provide any appropriations for
fortifications. I have just glanced over a report that has been
submitted to me by the clerk of the Committee on Appropriations
himself.
Mr. HEMENWAY. Will the gentleman yield to me for a
moment?
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. Certainly.
Mr. HEMENWAY. I have not stated that the Democratic
party failed to make any appropriations whatever.
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. The gentleman's propo-
sition, as I understood it, was that they had been opposed to ap-
propriations and failed to make them.
Mr. HEMENWAY. I stated that the average of appropriations
made by Democratic Congresses was very much below the aver-
ages made by Republican Congresses since the adoption of the
Endicott scheme.
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. The gentleman has qual-
ified his statement from what he first said, as I understand. But
for the sake of historical accuracy, I want to quote the appropri-
ations for fortifications that have been made for several years.

3600



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0645.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

In the Forty-seventh Congress, which I believe was a Republican
Congress, and I desire to be corrected if I am in error, in 1683, the
amount appropriated was $375,000. The Forty-eighth Congress,
a Democratic Congress, in 1885, appropriated $700,000. There was
no fear of war at that time. The Fiftieth Congress, a Democratic
Congress, appropriated $3,972,000, and was the first large appro-
priation ever made by Congress for fortifications in the history
of this Government. I think, Mr. Chairman, if these figures are
correct-
Mr. BROMWELL. Will the gentleman from Massachusetts
allow me a question?
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. Yes.
Mr. BROMWELL. Was not that large appropriation the first
made after the adoption of the Endicott system of coast defenses?
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. If that is so, it further
contradicts the gentleman from Indiana, who stated that the Dem-
ocratic party refused or neglected to carry out the recommenda-
tions of the Endicott board.
MAIr. HEMEN WAY. Will the gentleman give the appropria-
tions made by the Fifty-third and Fifty-fourth Congresses?
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. The Fifty-third Con-
gress appropriated $2,427,004, and the Fifty-second Congress ap-
propriated $2,734,000.
Mr. HEMENWAY. Compare that with the appropriations in
the Fifty-fourth Congress.
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. As the gentleman knows,
the controversy in regard to Cuba had been going on for a great
many years, and the agitation had set forth in every city the
necessity of increasing the appropriations for fortifications; and I
know that when I came to Congress in the Fifty-fourth Congress,
I was bombarded with letters from the Merchants' Association
in Boston, and from the Chamber of Commerce there, and for the
different interests, which insisted that Congress should make suit-
able appropriations for fortifications in the event of a war with
Spain.
Everybody kmew and realized for three or four years previous
to the actual declaration of hostilities that war with Spain must
be had. And when the gentleman cites the fact that in the Fifty-
fourth and Fifty-fifth Congresses, when war was imminent, the
appropriations increased, he knows that it was with no oppo-
sition of the Democratic party, but with the aid of every Demo-
cratic vote. The gentleman also knows that the other side of the
House has not a patent in this Congress or a monopoly on patriot-
ism; and although these vast expenditures of money have been
made under Republican administration and the Administration
has been able to reward its favorites by appointments to the Army
service and the naval service and in the different branches of the
service, no opposition to the proper maintenance of the Govern-
ment or a proper support of the war has been offered on this side
of the House.
Mr. HEMENWAY. Is the gentleman aware of the fact that
on the deficiency bills and out of the $50,000,000 put in the hands
of the President for war purposes, twenty-one millions was ex-
pended for coast defenses, that being the sum made necessary by
the war? The other amounts were carried on the regular appro-
r riation bill-that is, seven millions for 1897, nine and a half mil-
ions for 1898, nine and a half millions for 1899-and the twenty-
one millions was in addition to that.
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. I do not deny that state-
ment.
Mr. HEMENWAY. But the gentleman says that the amount
carried by the regular appropriation bills was brought about by
the danger of the war with Spain. I am calling his attention to
the fact that twenty-one millions was outsideof the appropriation
bills and made necessary by the preparation for war.
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. Everyone knowsthatthe
$21,000,000 was not spent until war was actually declared; and to
stand up here and say that there was not an agitation, spreading
over the country in regard to war for two years, that there was
no agitation for two years before war was actually declared, is
simply absurd.
Mr. HEMENWAY. It is by reason of that fact that the twenty-
one millions was expended, and had nothing to do with the regu-
lar amounts carried on tho appropriation bill.
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. The gentleman does not
seem to grasp my point. I may be deficient in language. The
$50,000,000 was for an emergency, and $21,000,000 of that money
was spent after the war had been declared.
Mr. HE MENWAY. lam not criticising the gentleman's patri-
otism at all. I say the amounts carried on the regular appropria-
tion bills was not brought about by any danger of war and that
the only amount that was expended by reason of danger of war
was the $21,000,000.
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. Well, Mr. Chairman,
I do not intend to discuss that line of inquiry any further. The
gentleman knows that war was threatened for four years and that
it became necessary, whether the Congress was Democratic or

Republican, to increase the appropriations, and I call the gentle-
mans attention to the fact that in the Fiftieth Congress, a Demo-
cratic Congress, they appropriated almost $4,000,000. The gentle-
man made a statement-I do not think he intended it-that the
Democratic party had refused to carry out the recommendation of
the Endicott board and refused to make appropriations for it. I
call his attention to the fact that a Democratic Congress was the
first one to make a large appropriation of over three million and
a half dollars, when the largest amount appropriated by the Re-
publican Congress before that was $735,000. This is the official
record of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. HEMENWAY. If the gentleman will yield, I will ask
unanimous consent to put into the RECORD as a part of my re-
marks a statement of the expenditures since the adoption of the
present system of fortifications.
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. I have no objection to
the publication of that statement.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Indiana [Mr. HEmEN-
WAY] asks unanimous consent to publish with his remarks in the
RECORD a statement of expenditures for fortifications during the
period he has named. Is there objection? The Chair hears none.
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. Mr. Chairman, as I
stated before, and the statement has been made by others on the
floor of this House, the Democratic party is just as patriotic as the
Republican party, and so far as my observation has gone since I
have been a member of this House, it is just as willing to sustain
the Government in time of war as the Republican party is. As
was said by the gentleman from Tennessee [Mr. RICHARDSON],
the honored leader on this side of the House, the Democratic party
has never made any opposition to any appropriations that were
deemed necessary by the Republican Administration for the car-
rying on of the war; they have been willing that the Republican
Administration should take the responsibility in this matter, and
the Republican party must abide by the result.
But when the gentleman from Indiana states that there has not
been any extravagance, I can say that there has been extravagance
in the War Department, in the conduct of that Department, dur-
ing this war, and the figures, if they are analyzed-I have not
time to analyze them this afternoon-will show this statement to
be true.
In connection with this subject, I notice that as part of the
Army appropriation bill there is appropriated this year for pay
of officers on the retired list and officers who may be placed on
the retired list during the current year, $1,273,000. I am as good
a friend of the soldier as any man in this House, but I say that
this is an extravagant item, and such an expenditure is not justified
by the facts.
Mr. HULL. The figures which the gentleman has just given
constitute the amount necessary to be appropriated for the pay of
those officers who have been or may be placed on the retired list
in pursuance of law. An appropriation of that amount had to be
made or the law repealed.
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. In answer to the gen-
tleman from Iowa, I will say that this large expenditure is caused
by the fact that, as the gentleman from Illinois has stated here,
men have been promoted for the very purpose of placing them
on the retired list at an advanced salary-
Mr. HULL. That matter constitutes but a very small part of
the sum appropriated; only the difference in these cases between
three-fourths of the pay of a colonel and three-fourths of the pay
of a brigadier-general. Now, I want to ask my friend whether
he does not believe that a man who served through the civil war,
who served his country in all the Indian wars, and then in his old
age served through the Spanish war, and never got beyond the
grade of colonel because there was no vacancy ahead of him to
which he could be appointed-whether such a man has not earned
from his country promotion to the rank of brigadier-general that
he might be retired as such?
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. I do not undertake to
answer that question in a general way. I can only say that the
record as given by the gentleman from Illinois shows-and I do
not think the people will sustain such a condition of affairs-that
men were promoted, their rank was increased in this way, and
then after they had served in their new grade, in some instances
three days, in other instances less than a week, and in other in-
stances less than a month, they were retired, and received the
additional pay consequent upon that promotion.
Mr. HULL. They -were promoted for the express purpose of
having a higher grade on the retired list.
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. With higher pay than
they would otherwise have received.
Mr. HULL. Did not President Cleveland make promotions the
same way for the same purpose?
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. I am not defending the
Administration of President Cleveland any more than any other
Administration. I say the practice is wrong. The gentleman
from Colorado said a while ago that the people of the country will

XXXIII-1226

1900.

3601



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0646.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

MARCH 31,

not sustain extravagance of that kind, and I agree with him abso-
lutely on this point. -.
Mr. HULL. At the last session of the Fifty-fifth Congress we
passed a law under which every officer who served in the Navy
during the civil war should, when retired, be retired at one grade
higher than that which he had held in lineal rank. Does not the
gentleman believe that such a law would be fair as applied to
officers of the Army who served through the civil war and have
rendered constant service since? Is it not fair that they should
be retired at one grade higher than their regular rank in order
that they might be placed upon an equality in this respect with
officers of the Navy?
Mr. FITZGERALD of Massachusetts. Iam not familiar enough
with the subject to give an answer to that question. I donotknow
whether the salaries for correspondinggrades in the higher offices of
the Army and the Navy are the same. But I know this much-that
when a man enlistsin the Army he is given his clothing and his outfit
free; but when he enlists in the Navy it takes about three months'
salary to pay for his uniform, etc. If that same system is carried
on through other departments of the naval service, then I think
that legislation giving this increased rank and pay upon retire-
ment in the Navy is proper. But, as I stated before, I do not think
that matter is relevant to this discussion.
Now, in regard to the era of "Republican prosperity" which
has been referred to as existing in all sections of the country, and
as to the manner in which the Republican party has administered
the affairs of this country, I wish only to make this observation
and not to enter into any extended discussion: While the gentle-
man from Michigan was indicating a moment ago the great "pros-
perity" which existed throughout the country, I came across a
little item from Dun's Weekly Review of to-day, stating that the
number of business failures last week was 203, an increase of
11 over the corresponding period of last year. Let me say also
that in other sections of the country this wonderful "prosperity"
which has been depicted on the floor of the House does not exist,
and I am informed that business in a great many lines in Boston
is at a low ebb.
I also commend to my friends on the other side of the House
who glory in the wave of "prosperity" that is claimed to have been
caused in this country, and what they have accomplished in the
last four or five years, the trust question as something that needs
solving. I do not think that any great party which is in power
in this House and in the Senate and in the Executive Mansion
can go before the people of this country and tell them that it is
impossible to frame laws which will prevent corporations of this
land from making $80,000,000 a year on a capitalization of
$100,000,000, as is the case with Standard Oil, and so increase
prices as to make an advance of 3 cents a gallon on the oil used
by every poor family in the land, or prevent a condition of affairs
such as was instanced in the late Carnegie-Frick deal, where it
was shown that $40,000,000 was to be made this year on a capi-
talization of $25,000,000, and where there has been a reorganiza-
tion in which one of the members stands for an amount equiva-
lent to $186,000,000, when it is a well-established fact that a great
deal less than $100,000,000 is put in as cash in the plant.
How do my Republican friends intend to answer this question
when they go before the people this fall? Will they satisfy the
people by pointing out that wages have been raised in some lines,
that our exports have increased, and that some mills are running
night and day? Any prosperity based upon trusts is fictitious pros-
perity and can not last, and the gentlemen on the other side of
the House must realize this as well as I do. Three years ago, by
reason of the destruction of the wheat crop in South America and
Asia, our farmers received excellent prices for their wheat. The
good prices received at that time have been the basis of the good
times of the past few years.
How much has the Dingley bill raised the price of wheat the
past two years? Is it not a fact that wheat is cheaper to-day than
for some time? If this is so, and the farming population repre-
sent the greater portion of the people of this country, and they
are getting low prices for farm products while the trusts and
monopolies have increased tremendously the cost of farming im-
plements as well as everything they eat and wear, how long will
this prosperity last? Nearly every commodity in this country to-
day is controlled by a trust, and to say that the people can con-.
tinue to prosper when dividends must be paid on stock watered,
in some cases, a thousand per cent, is to convict the American
people of insanity.
Gentlemen on the other side of the House know that never in
the history of the world have corporations and monopolies been
allowed to exist and thrive and extort money from the people as
they have been in this country during the last three or four years
and as they are doing now right under our noses to-day. For any
party in the control of the Government, in any branch of the serv-
ice, to laud what it has done in the last three or four years, and
then to say that Congress is unable and has not the power to re-
strict these combinations, is to insult the intelligence of the

American people and term government of the people, for the peo-
ple, and by the people a farce. [Loud applause.]
Mr. BELL. Mr. Chairman, I move that we read the bill.
Mr. HEMENWAY. I was about to make that request.
The Clerk, proceeding with the reading of the bill, read as foll0wg:
For construction of a sea wall and for necessary filling in at the reserva-
tion at Fort Caswell, N. C., $150,000.
Mr. LOVERING. Mr. Chairman, I wish a few moments in
which to refer to a statement made by the gentleman from Ter;-
nessee [Mr. RICHARDSON] and also to a paper which he asked to
print in the RECORD.
Mr. BELL. Now, Mr. Chairman, I think it is our duty to object
to any outside debate under the five-minute rule. I shortened up
my time in order that we might get through early to-day. I am
perfectly willing, after finishing the bill, that the gentleman may
address the House.
Mr. SHATTUC. * Will you not yield five minutes to the gentle-
man?
. Mr. RICHARDSON. I hope my friend will let the gentleman
have five minutes.
Mr. BELL. I will object to the next request of this kind.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Massachusetts [Mr.
LOVERING] asks unanimous consent to speak for five minutes.
Mr. BELL. I withdraw my objection.
Mr. LOVERING. I wish to refer to a statement made by the
gentleman from Tennessee [Mr. RICHARDSON], and also to a pa-
per which lie asked to have printed in the RECORD. I do not
think he meant to deceive himself; nor do I think he intended to
mislead the House in anything that he said, or in anything that
he found in the papers. He made one statement, however, which
calls for an answer, and that is that under the Dingley tariff the
price of wool has increased more abroad than in this country. I
am willing to concede this, but I wish to say that the reasons for
it are apparent to everyone who has studied the question, and
they do not in any way reflect upon the great prosperity enjoyed
under the Dingley tariff.
It is a fact that between the election in November, 1896, and
the passage of the Dingley Act, in 1897, enough wool was imported
into this country to meet the requirements of our manufacturers
for two and a half years. It is a fact that woolen goods enough
to last the country for two and a half years were also imported.
Every storehouse in the neighborhood of a woolen mill or a
woolen center was crowded and stored with wool. Since then
wool has been exported from this country to Europe and sold in
the London market, and the fact that the price of wool just at this
moment shows an increase of 54 per cent abroad and only 36 per
cent at home is not remarkable. This country consumes some-
where in the neighborhood of 600,000,000 pounds of wool each year.
The importations of wool between November, 1890, and the pass-
age of the Dingley Act in 1897, added to the home production of
wool for the following two and a half years was fully 1,500,000,000
pounds.
In the months immediately preceding the enactment of the
Dingley law the markets of the world were stripped of wool and
woolen goods, which were hurried into this country and thrown
upon the American markets, producing stagnation. We are only
just now getting to the end of this supply, and are beginning to
feel the benefit of the Dingley tariff. Any man who is in business
or who has anything to do with the woolen business understands
why it is that the prices of some wools abroad are higher than they
are in our own markets. That is all I desire to say.
The Clerk resumed and completed the reading of the bill.
And then, on motion of Mr. HEMENWAY, the committee rose;
and the Speaker having resumed the chair, Mr. GROSVENOR.
Chairman of the Committee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union, reported that that committee had had under consid-
eration thi bill (H. R. 9711) making appropriations for fortifica-
tions and other works of defense, for the armament thereof, for
the pirocurement of heavy ordnance for trial and service, and for
other purposes, and had directed him to report the sanie back
