things in it which everybody would probably like and vote for if they

were separated; but the good things are used to sugar over what, in
my judgment, is most pernicious.
Toere are three things in this resolution to which I wish to call the
attention of the House before they vote. The first is a proposition
of the largest possible proportion, that all money, whether of coin
or paper, that is to circulate in this country ought to be manufact-
ured and issued directly by the Government. I stop there. I want
to say on that proposition to the majority in this House, who arc so
strongly opposed to what they call centralization, that never was
there a measure offered to the Congress of so vast and far-reaching
centralism. It would convert the Treasury of the United States into
a manufactory of paper money. It makes the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate, or the cancus of the party which happens to be
in the majority, the absolute dictator of the financial and business af-
fairs of this country. This scheme surpasses all the centralism and
all the Ccesarism that were ever charged upon the republican party
in the wildest days of the war or in the events growing out of the
war.
Now I say, without fear of contradiction, that prior to 1862 the
wildest dreamer in American finance was never wild enough to pro-
pose such a measure of centralization as that single proposition im-
plies. The Governient should prescribe general laws in reference to
the quality and character of our paper money, but should never be-
come the direct manufacturer and issuer of it.
The second point involved in this resolution is that the Government
of the United States shall pay all its public debts in this manufact-
ured money, manufactured to order at the Treasury factory. Not-
withstanding the solemn and acknowledged pledge of the Govern-
ment to pay the principal and the interest of its public debt in coin,
this resolution declares that in this legal-tender paper the public debt
shall be payable.
The third point I wish to call attention to-
Mr. EWING. Will my colleague allow me to interrupt him for a
moment?
Mr. GARFIELD. Certainly.
Mr. EWING. You certainly misunderstand the resolution. It de-
clares that all public debts of the United States shall be paid in the
money of the contract, and not in any coin or money the Govern-
ment may choose to pay them in.
Mr. GARFIELD. Any money the Government may issue is by this
resolution declared to be lawful money, and, therefore, is to be made
the money of the contract by the legislation proposed to-day.
Mr. EWING. That is a mere quibble based on a total miscon-
struction of the resolution.
Mr. GARFIELD. Answer in your own time.
Now the third point in this resolution is that there shall be no re-
funding of the$780,000,000 to fall due this year and next, but all that
shall be paid. How? Out of the resources of the nation? Yes;but
the money to be manufactured at the Treasury is to be called part of
these resources. Print it to death-that is the way to dispose of the
public debt, says this resolution.
I have only to say that these three make the triple-headed monster
of centralization, inflation, and repudiation combined. This monster
is to be let loose on the country as the last spawn of the dying party
that thought it bad a little life in it a year ago. It is put out at this
moment to test the courage of the two political parties; it is offered
at this moment when the roar of the presidential contest comes to us
from all quarters of the country. In a few moments we shall see what
the political parties will do with this beast. All I have to say for one
is, meet it and throttle it; in the name of honesty, in the name of
the public peace and prosperity, in the name of the rights of individ-
ual citizens of this country against centralism, worse than we ever
dreamed of, meet it and fight it like men. Let both parties show
their courage by meeting boldly and putting an end to its power for
mischief. Let the vote be taken.
Mr. WEAVER. I yield two minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania.
Mr. KELLEY. I cannot say much intwominutes. Ican,however,
say that the announcement of the gentleman from Ohio [Mr. GA-
FIELD] that to require the Government to make our money tended to
consolidation was idle vapor, as there never was an honest dollar, or
franc, or mark, or shilling that was not made by a government. No
other power than government can make money. Currency there has
been which government did not create, bank-notes, and notes of indi-
viduals promising to pay money; but money other than that made
and issued by a government, by its authority and upon its responsi-
bility, has never existed here or in any other country. And all that
the gentleman said on that point was, I repeat, balderdash. So was
his allusion to the wildest dreamer that ever lived. In voting for this
resolution I will stand with that wildest of dreamers to borrow the
gentleman's wild phraseology, Thomas Jefferson, who, when portray-
ing the dangers of using bank-notes as money, aswas the practice at
the time he wrote to Mr. Eppes, said:
The power to issue money should be taken from the banks and restored to Con-
gross and the people, to which it properly belongs.
The gentleman also vociferated against the resolution because it
proposes to put an end to the refunding of our debt. If there is to be
no more refunding of maturing or matured bonds into those which
are to have either thirty or fifty years to run, I will thank God with
fervent thanks, for Secretary Chase never said a wiser thing than

2140

APRL 5,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0130.txt

CONGRESSIONAL lIECORD-HOUSE.

whe, he told Congress that the optional control of the debt was of
vastly more importance than the rate of interest, unless he at some
time exclaimed: "It is with nations as with nien: out of debt, out of
danger."
Just here I beg leave to tell the gentleman and the House that if we
convert redeemable bonds into those which will have thirty or fifty
years to run, as is proposed, we will pay in premium to the members
of the syndicate, from whom we will be compelled to purchase theta
if our debt is not to be perpetuated, more than we will seem to save
by having reduced the rate of interest on a debt, which since the
8th of November last we have been extinguishing at the rate of
$9,000,000 a month.
Mr. EWING addressed the House. [Ilis remarks will be found in
the Appendix.]
Mr. WEAVER. I yield for a minute to the gentleman from Indiana.
Mr. CALKINS asked, and obtained, leave to print some remarks
upon this subject. [See Appendix.]
Mr. WEAVER. Mr. Speaker, I reckon myself most happy in hav-
ing an opportunity of witnessing a vote upon these resolutions which
have so attracted the attention of this House and of the country for
the past three months. I am not surprised at the opposition of the
gentleman from Ohio, [Mr. GARFIELD.] I understand verywellthat
that gentleman and his party stand in the road blocking the prog-
ress of the people toward financial reform.
He assailed these resolutions with two distinct propositions: First,
that they favored centralization; second, that they are in violation
of the public faith of the nation, in that they propose to pay the public
debt in "manufactured money," as the gentleman styles it. I call
his attention to the resolutions themselves in response to that. There
is not one word in these resolutions looking to a violation of the public
faith or to the payment of the public debt in anything not strictly in
accordance with the contract. That is the language of the resolutions,
that the bonds shall be paid as rapidly as possible and according to
the terms of the contract. We all understand very well what the
gentleman means when he raises the cry that the public faith is about
to be endangered. He means that it is a violation of the public faith
to pay the public debt in silver dollars of 4124 grains. That is what
the gentleman means. The resolutions propose to pay the bonded
debt in silver dollars, if the bondholders prefer coin. Every man of
sense in all this broad land knows that the holders of these bonds do
not want them paid in either gold, silver, or greenbacks. They simply
want them to be funded perpetually and be exempted from the burdens
of the state.
I say here and now that the national greenback party is opposed
to the violation of the public faith, and is squarely opposed to the re-
pudiation of any portion of the public debt. [Applause.] We are in
favor of the payment of the debt accordingto the contract, and we are
the only party that desires ever to pay it. And while we are in favor
of that, we are determined that the moneyed interests of the country
shall not repudiate again those features in the contract which are in
favor of the people. We say that the bondholder having specified in
the law that he would receive the silver dollar of 4124 grains in pay-
ment for his bond, in all good faith he should be held to the strict
terms of the contract. He may have his pound of flesh, but not an-
other drop of American blood!
We do not seek to compel the bondholder to receive the greenback
in payment of his bond. The people once had the right so to pay
them, but that right was ruthlessly and wickedly taken away by a
change of contract in 1869, which took from the toiling tax-payers
$600,000,000, more than half of which went to enrich foreign princes
and usurers. These resolutions do not propose to interfere with the
contract, notwithstanding it was conceived in sin and fraud and
brought forth in iniquity. It proposes to pay in standard silver dol-
lars. Ali, it is not greenbacks, it is not silver, that you hate. It is the
payment of the debt that so enrages you. But the gentleman charges,
vehemently, that the resolutions tend to centralization and Cnsarism.
It is well that the gentleman has announced to the House and to the
country that the republican party prefers to trust the national bank-
ers, and the banking corporations, to control and issue the volume of
the currency, rather than a Congress of the sworn representatives of
the people. That he prefers the bankers of the country, not elected
by the people and not responsible to them, should have the power to
control the volume of the currency according to their own will, rather
than the representatives of the people, who are directly responsible to
their constituents. Let that issue be sharply and squarely drawn.
[Applause.] It is the great practical issue to-day in the American
Republic. Who shall issue the currency and control its volume?
Shall the bankers control it for their own selfish ends, or shall its
issue and volume be controlled by the whole people for the benefit
of all?
That I say is the colossal issue, and in it is involved the very exis-
tence of this Government and the freedom of the people. "Central-
ization!" The Congress of the United States, chosen for two years,
coming directly from the people and directly responsible to them for
their conduct, are not to be trusted! but the bankers of the country,
who are not chosen by the people, or elected by them, are to be trusted
with this great power involving the happiness and welfare of fifty
millions of people, and their countless posterity, without a murmur
from the gentleman and with his express approval. Let me repeat
it again, so that the American people may fully understand it. These

bankers are to be trusted, says the gentleman, in preference to the
people and their chosen representatives!
Is there no centralization, no Cnsarism here ? In the name of pub-
lic peace, in the name of honesty and fair dealing, in the name of the
laboring millions, who toil and dig and pay the taxes of the country,
I invoke the soft-money democrats of the United States and the hun-
dreds of thousands of republicans who have been long looking in vain
for economic reform within their party, to join with us in a death-
grapple with this corporate monster. In the name of the humble
poor who struggle not for office, and who simply want a fair chance
in the race of life, I ask you to give one vote for the Republic. Let
there be no dodging to-day, no hiding in the cloak-room; you cannot
serve two masters. You cannot avoid the issue if you would. It it
vital, permeating all classes, and engaging the attention of the peo-
ple as never before in our history. This is a supreme moment in the
istory of men and of parties in this House. Reflect well before you
vote.
I ask the Congress of the American people to stand up and assert
with Thomas Jefferson that the issue of the circulating medium
should be taken away from the banks and restored to the Govern-
ment, to which it properly belongs. [Applause.] I ask my demo-
cratic friends to stand where Jackson stood when he said in his fare-
well address that the banks could not be relied upon to keep the
circulating medium uniform in amount. [Applause.] I ask you to
stand where Calhoun and all the other great leaders of your party
stood in the past and purer days of your history.
And I ask my republican friends here to repudiate the doctrine of
the gentleman from Ohio. You owe it to your dignity and to the
American people to repudiate the doctrine that you cannot trust your-
selves as the people's representatives.
Mr. BAYNE. Will the gentleman allow me to ask him a question?
Mr. WEAVER. Certainly.
Mr. BAYNE. Where will the Government get the money to pay
the matured bonds?
Mr. WEAVER. It is very easy to answer. First, from the surplus
revenues properly increased by a judicious income tax; second, by
the coinage of silver. The bonds are not mature; they are payable
at the option of the Government.
Mr. BAYNE. But where will the Government get the money to
pay when they do mature?
Mr. WEAVER. They are only payable at the option of the Gov-
ermnent, and the Government can coin all the silver that is necessary.
Mr. BAYNE. And where will the Government get the silver?
Mr. WEAVER. Where does it get it now? It buys it with the
surplus revenues, and manufactures silver dollars; and $4,000,000 a
month, even under the present law, will pay off the principal and in-
terest of the debt now maturing in half the time that it is now pro-
posed to fund it.
Mr. MORTON. How do you propose to secure the $4,000,000 a
month to pay for the silver?
Mr. WEAVER. With the surplus revenues of the country. You
are paying the debt now for electioneering purposes at the rate of
two millions a week, and do not feel it. There is ample surplus rev-
enue for the purpose; all that is needed is the disposition to pay.
Mr. CHITTENDEN. Is there any other way that the Government
can pay for the silver with which you propose to pay off the bonds
than by issuing legal-tender greenbacks therefort Will you answer
me that squarely ?
Mr. WEAVER. I will. We can buy the silver bullion with the
surplus revenue that is now coming into the Treasury.
Mr. CHITTENDEN. There is nothing in that answer. The sur-
plus revenue is in greenbacks. You dodge the question.
Mr. KELLEY. The greenbacks are convertible into gold.
The SPEAKER rapped to order.
Mr. CHITTENDEN. Will the gentleman answer me that question ?
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from New York will be seated.
The gentleman from Iowa has the floor.
Mr. WEAVER. I dodge no question. In further and direct an-
swer to the gentleman's question, I say that this Government has the
power to issue and reissue its own currency, as has been held by the
highest court of the country; and it can issue enough to redeem the
national bank circulation, and then it can cancel, having paid the
debt of the banks, it can cancel, as fast as they mature, the bonds
now held by the banks to secure their circulation-
Mr. HAZELTON. Will the gentleman yield to me?
Mr. WEAVER. Not now. Andin that way we can pay $330,000,000
more of the national debt. There is no trouble about paying the debt.
The trouble with the gentleman from New York [Mr. CniirrmDEN]
is that lie does not want to pay the public debt at all.
Mr. CHITTENDEN. You admit the paper is tobe issued to pay it.
Mr. WEAVER. The Government has the same power to issue a
paper dollar that it has to issue a gold dollar, the same power to
issue a paper dollar that it has to authorize the national banks to issue
their circulation. The gentleman claims that the Government can-
not even reissue a paper dollar, as a legal tender, after it has been
received into the Treasury for public dues. What supreme folly!
Mr. SAMFORD. Mr. Speaker, there is so much noise and confusion
in this Hall that we can hardly hear, much less consider, the reso-
lotions introduced by the gentleman from Iowa. if I correctly com-
prehend them, they contain several propositions I indorse, and will

1880.

241



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0131.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD--ROUSE.

vote for them when they come in to be legislated upon. I favor the
doctrine asserted, that we should pay with greenbacks those bonds
so payable. We should have unlimited coinage of silver, and with
silver pay the bonds payable in coin, I am opposed to refunding the
public debt, and am opposed to national banks. There are so many
financial conundrums embodied in the resolutions, I may have for-
gotten some. But if I heard the resolutions aright, there is one doc-
trine asserted in them to which I cannot subscribe. I refer to that
one asserting the power of Congress to make money out of paper, re-
deemable in nothing, and yet give it a legal-tender quality in pay-
ment of private claams between citizens. I do not understand that
to be constitutional. I think that is entirely too violent an assump-
tion of power by Congress. The gentleman from Mississippi [Mr.
CHALMEs] requested that be omitted from the resolutions; if it
had been, I should vote for the balance. The gentleman from Iowa
declined to make the modification and as these resolutions must all
be voted on together I shall vote in the negative, especially as they
are simply an expression of opinion, and not intended to be a law
even if they received every vote in the House. Not wishing to be
put in the false attitude of opposing the wise provisions of the res-
olutions I make this explanation of my vote. The Supreme Court has
decided that Congress had the power to issue a redeemable note but
not an irredeemable nondescript. The idea, to my mind, is a chimera,
and I am unwilling to subscribe to it,
Mr. WHITE. Mr. Speaker, the pending propositiou is what in mili-
tary parlance may be called a dress-parade vote. It is not a vote in
the line of the regular legislative service. It does not propose to enact
a law, but to vote upon an abstract proposition to ferment and agitate
the public mind upon a most delicate and important question. This
is nut a political convention of any of the parties of the country. This
is a Congress, a law-making body, the highest of the nation. It is
unwise, in my opinion, to devote our time to the discussion of mere
resolutions when they cannot have the efficacy of law. It has been
very well said the pending resolution-for that is all it is-has some
good points with many bad ones.
One bad point is, that it is a declaration on the finance question
hastily thrown before the House and the country to be voted on with-
out deliberate discussion and well calculated to be misunderstood by
the now active and prospering business interests of the nation. The
eyes and ears of the political economists and the statesman are every-
where gratified with certain evidences of thrift and prosperity in all
the varied branches of our great industries. The trade, the business
interests of the laud have settled down to the bed-rock of sound
money. Gold and silver and the greenback, all equal and inter-
changeable with each other, circulate without question with the
tradesman and the banker, the laborer and the bondholder. A dollar
to-day is a dollar of actual value, and prices and contracts have ad-
justed and are adjusting themselves accordingly. Resumption came,
and came to stay. The wild visions and crazy prophecies of the "fiat
money" theorists have vanished into thin air before the convincing
logic of actual results. Yet the passage of the pending resolution
will disclose to the country and the world that this House is willing
to surrender all that has been gained; that we would return to the
wilderness of financial confusion through which we have been wan-
dering for the past few years.
Sir, I will not consent to this. This is not a proposition to retire
the greenback nor to reissue it, but a declaration that the Govern-
ment shall primarily issue all money in peace aswell as war, metallic
and paper, making each a legal tender for both public and private
debts, without regard to the volume of the issue or the attribute of
interchageability. Observe, there is no provision in this proposition
that the paper to be issued as a legal tender shall be convertible into
coin. The effect, then, of the first resolution will be a declaration
that this House is willing to commit itself to the utterance of that
heresy that, has tormented the country for the past few years, and
which has been so recently repudiated by a majority of the people, that
the mere stamp of the Government gave the value to the commodity
which was called money. Sir, I will vote for no such paradox in our
well-regulated political economy. My sentiments on this question
before the people were at all times and everywhere announced. I
will not now and here misrepresent them.
The second resolution may not be so objectionable as the first. The
public debt should of course be paid aceording to the contract. I
am not now and never have been disturbed about the payment of our
debt in silver. I never thought any contract about the great mass
of our public securities was violated by a payment in silver dollars.
But, sir, I have no time now to enlarge upon the details of our re-
funding processes. The first resolution before us is full of perils and
political quicksands-such a declaration going out from this House
at this time of business contentment will be a signal of danger. It
may cause many an industrial venture to pause and hesitate; many
a manufacturing establishment may stop and inquire; many afarmer
will be concerned about the prices he will get for his crops and his
stock. A reekless resolution like this going out to-day from the Con-
gress of the nation will come like a bell in the night upon our com-
mercial and industrial activity. No class of society will be exempt
from the ban just now of this proposition. He who advocates such
a measure may not say sincerely be is the friend of the working-man.
No sir; confusion and uncertainty in business brings no employment
to jabor, no bread to the poor man. I might vote for some points of

this proposition separately, but as a whole I believe it to be unwise
and I shall therefore vote against it.
The SPEAKER. The time of the gentleman from Iowa has e xpi red.
The question is on ordering the yeas and nays on the motion to sus-
pend the rules and adopt the resolution offered by the gentleman from
Iowa.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The question was taken; and there were-yeas 84, nays 117, not
voting 91; as follows:
YEAS-84.

Arimflold,
Atherton,
Atkins,
Beale,
B""ord,
Bonry,
B3iekoenl,
Blackburn,
Bland,
Caboll,
Clardy,
Clark, John B.
Cobb,
Coffroth,
Colerick,
Cook,
Cox,
Colborson,
Davidson,
Davis, Joseph 3.
Davis, Lowndee H.
Aldrich, N. W.
Aldrich, William
Anderson,
Bachman,
Baker,
Barber,
Bayne,
Beltnhoover,
Blake,
Boyd,
Brewer,
Briggs,
Brigham,
Browns,
B uckner,
B urrows,
Bettrwrth,
Calkins,
Cannon,
Carlisle,
Carpenter,
Caswell,
Chittenden,
Clymer,
Conger,
Covert,
Crups,
Craveos,
Dhggett,
Davis, George R.
Acklen,
Aiken,
Bailey,
Ballou,
Barlow,
Bingham,
Bliss,
Blont,
Bonk,
Bowman,
Brar
Caldwell,
Camp,
Chalmers,
Claflin,
Clark, Alvah A.
Converse,
Cowgill,
Crowley,
Disk,
DWIght,
E insatin,

Do La Matyr,      Kes,              Sawyer,
Dibrell,          Ladd,             Scales,
Dickey,           Lowe,             Singleton, J. W.
Dune,             Manning,          Singleton, 0. B.
P lam,          - MMKenze,         Siemoe.n
Ewing,            McMillin,         Smith, William F.
Felton,           Mills,            Sparks,
Finly,           Muldrow,          Spoor,
Ford,             Murch,            Steele,
Forney,           Myers,            Stevenson,
Forsytho,         New,              Taylor,
Frost,            Nicholls,         Tillman,
Geddes,           Persons,          Turner, Oscar
Gillette,         Phelps,           Turner, Thomas
Gunter,           Philips,          Vance,
Harris, John T.   Reagan,           Waddill,
Hatch,            Richmond,         Weaver,
House,            Robertson,        Wellborn,
Hell,             Rothwell,         Williams, Thnras
Jones,            Russell, Daniel L. Willis,
Kelley,           Ryon, John W.     Wilson.
NAYS-Il7.

Davis, H
Deeting,
Douster,
Duncell,
Errtt,
Evis,
Farr,
Ferdon,
Field,
Fisher,
Frye,
Gafoield,
Goode,
Hall,
Harris. B
Haskell,
Hawk,
Hawley,
Moyss,
]Macelton
Hendero
Herbert,
Hordon,
Hiseek,
Hook.
Hubbell,
Humiphr
Munton,
Hard,
James,
Ellis,
Fort,
G ibson,
Godsbalk
Hammon
Hammon
Harmer,
Heilman,
Henkle,
Henry,
Mill,
Hooker,
Herr,
Hostetler
Hutehins
Jorgense
Ketcham
Killinger
King,
Kitehin,
Klotz,
Knott,
Le Fovre

orace      Johnston,
Joyse,
Keifer,
Kimmel,
Lapham,
Lewis,
Lindsey,
Louusbery,
Mason,
MeCeid,
McLane,
Mitchell
Money,
eal. W.    Monroe,
Morrison,
Morse,
Morton,
Neal,
Nowberry,
on,       Noreross,
O'Neill,
O'Reilly,
Overton,
Page,
Phister,
y,        Pirece,
Pound,
Prescott
Price.
NOT VOTIING-91.
Loring,
Marsh,
Martin, BeOJ. F.
Martin, Edward L.
'd, John   Martin Joseph d.
tN. . MeCool,
Mcinloy,
MeMahon,
Miles,
Miller,
Muller,
O'Brien,
O'Connor,
Orth,
Osmor,
a,         Pacbeco,
Poeher,
Rico,
Richardson, D. P.
Richardson, J. S.
Robeson,
Sapp,
Sherwin,

Reed,
Robinson,
Ross,
Russell, W. A-
Ryan, Thomas
Samford,
Shallenberger,
Shelley,
Smith, A. HeT
Stone,
Thees,
Thompson, P. B.
Thompso , W.0.
Townsend, Aamos
Tucker,
Tyler,
tpdeogra J. r.
Updograff, Thomas
Upson,
Valentine,
Van Aervaim,
Voorhi s
Washborn,
White,
Wilber,
William#, C. G.
Simonton,
Smith, Hezeldok   B.
Springer,
Starin,
Stephess,
Talbot,
Townshed, B. W.
Urneor
Van Voorhis,
Ward,
Warner,
Wells,
Whiteaker,
Whitthorne,
Willits,
Wise,
Wood, Fernando
Wood, Walter k.
Wright,
Yonou,
Young, Casey
Young, Thomas L.

So (two-thirds not voting in favor thereof) the rules were not sus-
pended.
The following pairs were announced:
Mr. RIGHARDSON, of South Carolina, with Mr. RICHARDSON, of New
York. If present, Mr. RICHARDSON, of South Carolina, would vote
"ay" and Mr. RICHARDSON, of Yew York, "no."
Mr. AIKEN with Mr. WAuD. If Mr. WARD were present, Mr. AIKEN
would vote "ay."
Mr. BOUCK with Mr. MCKINLEY. If Mr. McKuLEcy were present,
Mr. BOUCK would vote " ay."
Mr. WLLITS with Mr. KNOTT.
Mr. ROBsSON with Mr. WARNER.
Mr. HOSTETLER with Mr. Home.
Mr. CALDWELL with Mr. ul m-AmN.
Mr. FERNANDO WOOD with Mr. CicrriEc .
Mr. WILSON with Mr. OBTH.
Mr. SHERWIN with Mr. WRIGIIT.

2142

APRi .5,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0132.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

Mr. HEnx with Mr. RICE.
Mr. SMaTrn.of Pennsylvania, with Mr. HENRY.
Mr. O'CoNNOR with Mr. BOWMAN.
Mr. BALLOU with Mr. SMiTH, of New Jersey.
Mr. CowGILL with Mr. WELLS.
Mr. MARTIN, of North Carolina, with Mr. KITCOIN.
Mr. LORING with Mr. SPEER.
Mr. CO.nvERsE with Mr. SAPP.
Mr. MULLER with Mr. MILLER.
Mr. HAMMOND, of Georgia, with Mr. BINonAns.
Mr. HAMMOND, of New York, with Mr. STEPHENS.
Mr. SIMONTON with Mr. HARMER.
Mr. BLISS with Mr. YOUNG, of Ohio.
Mr. ACKLEN with Mr. KILLINGER.
Mr. CHALiERS with Mr. VAN VooRIms.
Mr. WHITEAKER with Mr. POEKLER.
Mr. CAMP with Mr. KLOTZ.
Mr. STARIN with Mr. O'BRrEN.
Mr. LE FEVRr with Mr. McCooK.
Mr. TOWNSHEND of Illinois, with Mr. CLAFLIN.
Mr. IOUNSBERY with Mr. BAILEY.
Mr. HUTCHINS with Mr. DwIGHT.
Mr. BAYNE with Mr. MARTIN, of Delaware, on all political ques-
tions,
Mr. TALBOr with Mr. BRIGGS on all political questions.
Mr. McLAE with Mr. UuER.
Mr. WMiTTHORNE with Mr. KETCHAM.
Mr. BAYNE. My pair with Mr. MARTIN, of Delaware, is on all po-
litical questions. Believing he would vote in the negative on this
question, I have so voted.
Mr. BRIGGS. I am announced as paired with Mr. TALBOTr, of
Maryland. I have been informed by the colleagues of Mr. TALBOTT
that he would vote in the same way as I have voted, and therefore I
have voted.
Mr. CHITTENDEN. The Clerk has announced that I am paired
with Mr. FERNANDO WOOD. My pair with Mr. WOOD expired this
morning. I think I am authorized to say that he would vote as I
have done, if he were here.
Mr. LOUNSBERY. I am announced as paired with Mr. BAiLEY,
my colleague. Believing he would vote "no," if here, I have so
voted.
Mr. MoLANE. I heard the Clerk read the announcement that I
was paired with my Colleague, Mr. URNER. There is no such pair at
this time.
The SPEAKER. The Clerk has read the announcement as fur-
nished to him.
Mr. TOWNSHEND, of Illinois. It was announced to me last week
that Mr. McLANR and Mr. URNER were paired.
Mr. McLANE. That may be so.; but the pair is now terminated.
I have voted " no," and I understand that Mr. UNER would have
voted the same way if he had been here.
Mr. GARFIELD. I am quite sure of that.
Mr. FORT. I understand that my pair still continues. The gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania, [Mr. HARMER,] who has charge of the
matter, is absent. With the understanding that my pair still con-
tinues, I have not voted.
Mr. SMITH, of Pennsylvania. My pair with Mr. HENRY, of Mary-
land, is on political questions. Believing this not be a political
question, I have voted "no."
Mr. KENNA. The Clerk announced the pair of Mr. HARMEE, of
Pennsylvania, with Mr. SIMONTON, of Tunnessee. My colleague, Mr.
MARTIN, of West Virginia, who is confined to his room by sickness,
is under the impression that he is paired with Mr. HARMER, of Penn-
sylvania.
The SPEAKER. Mr. HA-RMR is absent, and therefore has not
voted.
Mr. KENNA. I desire to state that my colleague is under that
impression.
The result of the vote was then announced as above stated.
Mr. WHITE. I ask leave to print some remarks upon the subject
of the resolution just voted upon.
There was no objection. [See Appendix.]
Mr. SCALES. I desire to make a similar request.
Mr. PHELPS. And so do I.
Mr. KENNA. I move that general leave be granted to members to
print remarks upon this subject.
There was no objection, and leave was granted accordingly. [See
Appendix.]
IMMEDIATE TRANSPORTATION OF DUTIABLE GOODS.
Mr. ALDRICH, of Illinois. I move that the rules be suspended so
as to discharge the Committee of the Whole on the state of the Union
from the further consideration of the bill (H. R. No. 4911) to amend
the statutes in relation to immediate transportation of dutiable goods,
reported with amendments from the Committee on Ways and Means,
and that the bill with those amendments be now passed.
The bill as proposed to be amended was read, as follows:
A bill to amend the statutes in relation to immediate transportation of dutiable
goods.
Be it enacted, etc., That when any merchandise, other than explosive articles,
and articles in bulk not provided for in section 4 of this act, imported at the ports

of Now York Philadelphia, Boston, Baltimore, Portland end Bath, in Mains,
Chicago, Pert Huron, Detroit, New Orleans, Cleveland Toledo, and San Francisco,
shell appear by the invoice or bill of lading and manifest of the importing vessel
to be consigned to and destined for either af the ports specified in the sixth seetion
of this act, the collector at the port of areival shall allow the said merchandise to
b shipped im ediaiely after the entry proscribed in section 1 of ths act has been
made.
SEC. 2. That the collector at the prt of first arrival shall retain in bis offipe a
permanent record of such merchandise so to be forwarded to the port of destina-
lieno and such record shall consist of a copy of the invoice and a entry whereon
the duties shall be estimated ns closely as possible on the merchandise so shipped ;
but no oaths shall be required on the said entry. Such merchandise shall not be
subiect to appraisement and liquidation of duties at the pert of first arrival, hut
shall undergo such examination as the Secretary of the Treasury shall deem neces-
eary to verify the invoice; and the same examination and appraisement thereof
shall be required and had at the port of destination as would have been required
at the port of first arrival if such merchandise had been entered for consumption
or warehouse at such port.
Sc. 3. That such merchandise shall be delivered to and transported by common
carriers, to be designated for this purpose by the Secretary or the Treasury, and
to and by none others; and such carriers shall be responsible to the United States
as common carriers for the safe delivery of such merchandise to the collector at
the part of its deostinatien; and before any such carriers shall he permitted to re-
ceive and transport any such merchandise, they shall become hound to the United
States in bonds of such form and amount, and with such conditions, not incon-
sistent with law, aid such security as the Secretary of the Treasury shall require.
SEc. 4. That merchandise transported under the provisions of this act shall be
conveyed in cars, vessels, or vehic es securely fastened with locks or seals, under
the exclusive control of the officers of the customs; and merchandise may also be
transported under the provisions of this act by express companies, on passenger
trains, in safes and trunks, which shall beof such size, character, and description,
and secured in such manner as shall be from tio to time prescribed by the Sec-
retary, and in cases where merchandise shall be imported in toxes or packages too
large to he incloded within the safes or trunks so proscribed, such merchandise
may be transported, under the previsions of this act, by such express companies,
in a separate compartment of the cr, secured in such manner as shall from time
to time be prescribed by the Sec taery of the Treasury; and merchandise such as
pig-iron, spiegel-iron, scrap-iron, iron ore, railroad-iron, and similar articles com-
monly transported upon platform or flat cars, ieay be transported, uader the pro.
visions of this act, upon such platform or flat cars, and the weight of such mer-
chandise so transported shall he ascertained in all cases before shipment, and ordi.
nary railroad-scales may be used for such purpose; and inspectors shall be stationed
at proper points aloug the designated routes, or upon any car, vessel, vehicle, or
train at the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, and at the expense of the
companies, respectively. Such merchandise shall not be unladen or transshipped
between the ports of first arrival and final destination, unless authorized by the
regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury in cases which may arise from a dif-
ference in the gauge of rilroads, or from accidents, or from legal intervention, or
when by reason of the length of the route the cars, after due inspection by ens.
tome oflcers, shall be considered unsafe or unsuitable to proceed further, or from
low water, ice, or other unavoidable obstruction to navigation; and in no case shall
there b penritted any breaking of the original packages of such merchandise.
SEC. 5. That merchandise so destined for immediate transportation shall be trans.
ported, ureter proper supervision, directi from the importing vessel to the car,
vessel, or vehicle in which the same is tobe transported to its final destination.
Sic. G. That the privilege of immediate transportation shall extend to the ports
of New York and Buffalo, in New York; Boston, in Massachusetts; Providence, in
Rhode Island; New Haven and Middletown, in Connectecut; Philadelphia and
Pittsburgh, in Pennsylvania  Baltimore, in Maryland; Norfolk and Richmond, in
Vrginia ; Charleston, in South Carolina; Savannah, in Georgia; Now Orleans, in
Losiana; Portland and Bath, in Maine ; Chicao, in Illlos; Detroit and Port
Huron. in Michsgan ; Saint Louis, tn Missouri; Saint Paul, in Minnesota; Cincein-
nati, Clevelaid, end Toledo, ic Ohio; Milwaukee, in Wisconsin; Louisville, in Ken.
tucky; San Francisco, in Calitorais; Portland, in Oregon; Memphis, in Tennes-
see; :Mobile, in Alabama; and Evansville, in Indiana.
Sec. 1. That sections 29902991, 2992, 2993, 2994, 2995,2996, and 2997 of the Revised
Statutes be, and the same are hereby, repealed.
Sec. . That no merchandise shall ho shipped under the previsions of this act
after such merchandise shall have been landed tne days from the it orting vessel,
and merchandise not entered within such tie shall e sent to abonsed warehoese
by the collector a unclaimed, and held until regularly entered and appraised.
SEc. 9. That this act shall take effect and be in force from and after the 1st day
of July, A. D. 1880.
The motion to suspend the rules was then seconded.
Mr. MORRISON. I desire to say this is the unanimous report of
the Committee on Ways and Means. I ask that the report of that
committee, which is a short one, be read.
The report was read, as follows:
Your committee reports that under existing laws importers of articles destined
for any of the interior ports are subject to delays, increased expense, and other
hardships not necessary to secure the collection of the duties on such merchandise.
Importers are now required to give bond at first port or port of entry in addition
to the transportation bond, which has always proved sufficient to save the Govern-
ment harmless in the collection of its revenues. Liquors and many articles other
than explosive articles and articles in bulk are now excluded from the right of
ransportation in bond, thus compelling the importer to receive his goods and pay
duties at the seaport.
Articles now authorized to be transported in bond, with right to importer to pay
duties at any interior port, are required to be transported in sealed cars and in
other modes than such articles as psg and railroad iron and other like articles are
usually transported.
Your committee reports the following substitute for the bill (H. R. No. 870) re-
ferred to the committee for consideration and report; which substitute so amends
existing laws as to remedy the hardships above referred to, and in this the Secre-
tary of the Treasury concurs. Your committee therefore recommends the passage
of the substitute.
The question was taken; and (two-thirds voting in favor thereof)
the rules were suspended, and the bill was passed.
DUTIES ON SALT, PRINTING TYPE AND PAPER, ETC.
Mr. TOWNSHEND, of Illinois. I move to suspend the rules so
that the Committee on Ways and Means be discharged from the fur-
ther consideration of House bill No. 5265, and that the same be now
passed.
The bill was read, as follows:
A bill (H. R. No. 5265) to revise and amend sections Z503, 2504, and 2505 of title 33
of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
Be it enacted by te Senata and House of Representatives of the United States of
Amaerica in Congres assembled, That sections 2503, 2504, and 2505 of title 33 of the

1880.

2143



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0133.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

Revised Statutes of the United States be revised and amended so that the duty
en salt printng-type printing-paper, and thochemicals and materials used in the
manufacture of printing-paper, c repealed, and that said articles be placed on the
free list.
A vote being demanded on seconding the motion to suspend the rules,
Mr. TOWNSHEND, of Illinois, and Mr. CONGER were appointed tellers.
The House divided ; and the tellers reported-ayes 82, noes 81.
Sb the motion to suspend the rules was seconded.
Mr. TOWNSHEND, of Illinois. I call for the yeas and nays on
agreeing to the motion to suspend the rules.
The yeas and cays were ordered.
The question was taken; and there were-yeas 112, nays 80, not
voting 100; as follows:
YEAS-llt
Anderson,         Dickey,           Kitchin,          Sawyer,
Arofield,        Donn,             Lewis,            Shelley,
Atherton,         Elam,             Lowe,             Singleton, J. W.
Atkins,           Ellis,            Manning,          Singleton, 0. R.
Beale,            Evins,            Marsh,            Siemens,
Belford,          Felton,           Martin, Jseph 5.  Smith, William B.
Bicknell,         Finley,           McKenzie,         Sparks,
Blackburn,        Feod,             McLane,           Springer,
Blount,           Forney,           McMilln,         Steele,
Bovd,             Forsythe,         Mills,            Stevenson,
Buecknor,         Frost,            Money,            Taylor,
Cabell,           Godde, Morrison,                   Thomas,
Calkins,          Goode,            Morton,           Thompeon, P. B.
Cannon,           Gunter,           Muldrow,          ThompSon, W. G.
Carlisle,         Harris, John T.   Myers,            Tillman,
Clardy,           Haskell,          New,              Tucker,
Clarki, John B.   Hatch,            Nicholls,         Turner, Oscar
Cobb,             Hawk,             0 Reilly,         Turner, Thomas
Coleriek,         Hayes,            Persons,          Up eon,
Cook,             Renderson,        Philips,          Vone,
Crayons,          Herbert,          Phistor,          Waddill,
Culbrson,        Herdon,          Reagan,           Weaver,
fDaggett,         House,            Richmond,         Wollbor,
Davidson,         Hull,             Robertson,        Whiteaker,
Davis, Joseph J.  Hunten,           Rothwell.         Whitthorn,
Davis, Lowndes ]l. Johnston,        Russell, Daniel L. Williams, Thomes
Donstor,          Jones,            Ryan, Thomas      Willis,
Dibrell,          Kimmel,           Samford,          Wilson.
NAYS-80.
Aldrich, N. W.    Deering,          Kelley,           Price,
Bachman,        Danel,            Henna,            Rood,
Barber,           lrrett,            miot.,           Robinson,
Boyne,            Ewing,            Ladd,             Ross,
Beltzhoover,      Farr,              'apham'          Ryon, John W.
Blake,            Ferdon,           lindsey,          Shallenberger,
Buek,            Field,            McGBwan,          Smith, A. Herr
Brewer,            Fisher,          Metahon,          Stone,
Brigham,          Frye,             Mitchell,         Townsend, Amos
Burrows,          Garfield,         Monroe,           Tyler,
Buttrworth,      Hall,             Morse,            Updsgraff, ,T.
Camp,             Harris, Benj. W.  Neal,             Updsgraff, Thomes
Carpenter,        Hawley,           Noreross,         Valentine,
Caseoll,          Hazelton,         O'Neill,          Van Aernam,
Clymer,           Hasoock,          Overton,          Voorhis,
Coffroth,         Houk,             Page,             Wait,
Conger,           Hubbell,          Phelps,           Washburn,
Cropo,            James,            Pierce,           White,
Davis, George R.  Joyce,            Pound,            Wilber,
bavis, Horace     Keifer,           Prescott,         Williams, C. G.
NOT VOTING-100.
Acklen,           Crowley,          King,             Robeson,
Aiken             Do La Matyr,      Knott,            Russell, W. A,
Aldrich, Willim  Dick,             Lo Fevre,         Sapp,
Bailey,           Dwighl,          Loting,           Scales,
Baker,            Einstein          lonsbery,         Sherwin,
Ballou,           Fort,             Martin, Benj. F.  Simonton,
Barlow,           Gibson,           Martin, Edward L. Smith, Hezekiah B.
Berry.            Gillette,         Mason,            Sper,
Bingham,          Godshalk          IdeCold,          Starin,
Bland,            lammon, John    McCeok,           Stephens,
Bliss,            Hammond, N. J.    McKinley,         Talbot,
Bowman,          lBtarmer,          Miles,            Townshend, R. W.
Bragg,            Heilman,          Miller,           Urner,
Briggs,           Honlde,           Muller,           Van Voorhis,
Bright,           Henry,            March,            Ward,
Browne.           Hill.             Newborry,         Warner,
Caldwell,         Hooker,           O'Brien,          Wells,
Chalmers,         Herr,             O'Connor,         Willits,
Chittenden,       Hostetler,        Orth,             Wise,
Claflin,          Humphrey,         Osmer,            Wood, Fernando
Clark, Alvah A.   Hurd,             Pacheco,          Wood, Walter A.
Converse,         Hutchins,         Poebler,          Wright,
Covert,           Jorgensen,        Rice,             Yoeum,
Cowgill,          Keteham,          Richardson, D. P. Voung, Casey
Cox,              Killnger,        Richardson, J. S.  Young, Thomas L.
So (two-thirds not voting in favor thereof) the motion to suspend
the rules was not agreed to.
The following pairs were announced at the Clerk's desk:
Mr. STEPHENS with Mr. Osmma.
Mr. BERlY with Mr. PACHECO.
Mr. NEWnnRY with Mr. SPEER.
Mr. MCCO  with Mr. BROWNE.
Mr. COVERT with Mr. YOUNG, of Ohio.
Mr. BAKER with Mr. CROWLEY.
Mr. Hu irry with Mr. POERLEIr.
Mr. WALTER A. WOOD with Mr. Cox.
The Clerk also read the following announcement:
I am paired with Mr. MARTIuc, of Delaware; but being informed by some of his
party associates that he would vote in the negative, I have so voted.
THOMAS M. BAYNE.
The result of the vote was announced as above stated.

PUBLIC BUILDING, CHARLESTON, WEST VIRGINIA.
