forum and a coveted associate on any question. In debate he
was a past master, correct in expression, sound In thought,
logical in argument, and quick at repartee. He measured his
course in discussing a question apparently by the mathematical
axiom that the shortest distance between any two given points
is the straight line connecting them. He selected the vital point
at issue and drove all his force upon it. This gave him great
power in the arena of public debate and made him a powerful
and forcible factor in any discussion in which he engaged.
By virtue of his large and thorough information on subjects,
his keen, accurate analysis, his quick perception, incisive and
convincing logic, firm determination, and biting sarcasm made
him formidable in his position on any question and an advocate
of extraordinary power. He brought to all the questions he
championed an intellectual force and power that gave him
strength before the public and confidence-in the position he
assumed. He studied public questions not from the standpoint
of temporary expediency, but from the standpoint of permanent
benefit to the whole people. The author of any measure as a
panacea for all the public ills found in him an unfriendly com-
panion, a reluctant coadjutor, because he believed In the ap-
plication of well-established principles as the only true standard
by which public questions could be correctly settled in legisla-
tion beneficial to the welfare of the whole country; as time
has demonstrated, a most wholesome rule, and one which can
not be too often invoked or too rigidly enforced. It was this
settled disposition, this inflexible purpose, this adherence to

.1910.

4473



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1054.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

-principle that gave him prominence, won for him a lasting dis-
tinction, made him so valuable in the public service, and earned
for him the confidence he enjoyed in his State and the Nation.
He rose step by step in the public service as a reward for
thb conscientious discharge of duties well performed, until In
this great legislative body he was one of the foremost Members,
a leader in national legislation, a conspicuous figure in the
public eye, a great factor in the affairs of the Nation, and gave
promise of enjoying higher stations where he could have ren-
dered greater service to the public and made greater benefac-
tions to the Nation. But-
The boast of heraldry, the pomp of power,
And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave,
Await alike the inevitable hour :
The path of glory leads hut to the grave.
He solved the great problem of life, wrote his name on the
pages of immortal history, and met his destiny like the phi-
losopher he was. He conquered the obstacles he met in the path-
way of life and left a glowing tribute to the possibilities of
American manhood when endowed with the agencies nature
bestows for the use of mankind, and which, when developed as
required, prove the greatest blessing our race enjoys. He
served his country to high purpose, and earned a valuablo
legacy for mankind, which he left as an inheritance, that pos-
terity might enjoy and be stimulated to greater zeal and higher
purposes in working out the mission of life. He rose from the
humble walks of life to high position-
The applause of list'ning Senates to command,
The threats of pain and ruin to despise,
To scatter plenty o'er a smiling land,
And read their history in a nation's eyes.
The country was shocked at his tragical death, and mourns
his loss, which occurred at a time when in the zenith of his
powers, at the period of his greatest usefulness, and when his
country needed his services and his wise counsel.
But, "far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife," he
sleeps in the soil of his adopted State the sleep that knows no
wakening, unconscious of the busy scenes in life's everyday
panorama among the devoted friends who rallied around his
fortunes in life, who enjoyed his triumphs as their own, who
gloried in his victories, and now mourn with deep grief his
unfortunate death.
Mr. CLARK of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, Judge DAVID A. DE
ARmOND, who was of Huguenot extraction, was born, reared,
and educated in one of the loveliest portions of Pennsylvania
and spent his manhood days in the Imperial Commonwealth of
Missouri. By his career he added new honor to the race from
which he sprang, to the State in which he first saw the light,
and to the State which he represented here so long.
Judge DE ARMOND was unique in both habit and mental
make-up. The term "sul generis," so often misapplied, de-
scribes him precisely. To the last he spoke as a judge in this
House and out of it, which manner of speech he had acquired
by long service upon the bench.
That he stood among the highest here and was recognized
as a force to be taken into account at all times and under all
circumstances was a fact known to all of us. Why did he so
rank? First, because of his native ability, his accurate infor-
mation, his clear, incisive style of speaking, his fidelity to prin-
ciple, and his flawless integrity. Secondly, by reason of his
long service and by his constant attendance on the sittings of
the House.
He died near the end of his nineteenth year in Congress. Of
all the Missourians who have been Members of the House, one
only exceeded him in length of service-the sterling and well-
beloved Richard Parks Bland, who died in the early part of
his twenty-fifth year of service, possessing an international
reputation. The Missourian next to him in point of service
in the House was Governor John S. Phelps, who served eighteen
years and rose to be chairman of the Committee on Ways and
Means, the first chairman of that committee from the sunset
side of the Great River. Roger Q. Mills, of Texas, is the only
other trans-Mississippian to achieve that greatly coveted honor.
The high places to which Phelps, Bland, and DE AnamaoyD rose
in both the House and the country is another illustration of
the value of long service-value not only to themselves, but to
their constituencies and to the entire Republic.
Men should not be sent hither simply to gratify their own
personal ambitions, but because they can be of service, and
having proved that they are of service, wisdom dictates that
they should be kept here so long as they continue to be of serv-
Ice; and it may be confidently asserted that the value of the
services of a man of capacity, character, industry, and good
habits increases in exact proportion to his length of service.

New England understands this thoroughly. So do the cities
of Philadelphia and Pittsburg. When a Representative from
any of those places demonstrates his fitness here, he is retained
until he retires, dies, or Is promoted. Five times in succession
Philadelphia has had the distinguished honor of furnishing
the "father of the House "-Kelly, Randall, O'Neal, Harmer,
and BINGHAM. Should General BINOAM, the present "father
of the House," for any reason cease to be a Member, the title of
"father of the House" would pass to still another Pennsyl-
vanian, my friend the Hon. JOHN DALZELL. These facts should
furnish much food for thought to every constituency in the
land.
Judge DE ARMOND was happy In his constituency, and they
were fortunate in their Representative. Though there were
many able and ambitious men in that district, well worthy of
a seat in this Hall, the people of that district would elect
nobody but D ARMOND. Indeed, they gave so little encourage-
ment to other aspirants that after his first election, which
occurred in 1890, he never had opposition for the nomination.
This enabled him to remain here constantly while the Congress
was in session and to devote his entire time and energies to the
discharge of his onerous and multifarious duties. By reason
of this wisdom on the part of his constituents, and by his using
to the utmost the opportunities which they gave him, he grad-
ually and surely became one of the most prominent of Repre-
sentatives.
For years he was the ranking Democrat on the great Judi-
ciary Committee, for three terms was a member of the Commit-
tee on Rules, once came within a few votes of the nomination
for Speaker, and was frequently mentioned for the Presidency.
No sane man can believe that he would have risen so high if
lie had not served so long and if he had been compelled to spend
a large portion of his time in Missouri campaigning for renomi-
nation. I can speak on this subject with some freedom, as my
own constituents have been very kind to me, having given me
eight unanimous nominations, thereby enabling me to remain
constantly at my post of duty, for which I am deeply grateful.
Judge DE ARMOND was the most sarcastic of all the men who
have sat in the American Congress. Tristam Burges, John
Randolph of Roanoke, John James Ingalls, and Thomas
Brackett Reed made reputations in that regard which may out-
live his; but they, in order to eke out their sarcasm, ransacked
all literature, ancient and modern, sacred and profane, in both
prose and poetry. DE AaMOND'S sarcasm was his own, evolved
from his own inner consciousness. He never quoted history
or biography or poetry; he did not adorn or illustrate his
speeches with wit, humor, or anecdote; he frequently made peo-
ple laugh and applaud, but it was always his sarcasm which
brought those results. He used his sarcasm so much that some
men concluded that he was always in bad temper, which was
not true. To those who knew him well there appeared to be
two of him-one the sarcastic public speaker, who seemed to de-
light in carving his foes and sometimes his friends; the other
DE ARM0 D in private conversation gentle, kindly, companion-
able. That his sarcasm made him enemies there can be no
doubt, for sarcasm means flesh tearing and frequently, Indeed
generally, leaves a festering wound. His style of speaking and
his diffidence of manner caused folks to believe him cold. Some
of the opposition papers in Missouri called him " Frosty DAVE,"
yet with his intimates he was warm-hearted, generous, and
obliging.
I believe that on the last day of his service in the House, in
August, 1909, he was more popular than ever before. Whether
it was because advancing years had mellowed him or because
men had come to understand him better, I do not-know; but I
believe I have stated the truth.
He was the greatest verbal precision in the House during his
nineteen years here. He never wrote his speeches; he was the
only man of reputation in the House who could afford to let a
long, unwritten speech go to the printer unrevised without in-
jury to his reputation. His sentences were like cameos. They
needed no revision. When he first told me that he never wrote
his speeches I really believed that he was Indulging in that
vanity which leads some men to claim as extemporaneous
speeches which they had carefully written, rewritten, boiled
down, polished up, and committed to memory; but we talked
about it so often and he told me so circumstantially how he
came to quit writing speeches that I knew he was candid in
his declaration that he did not write them. His explanation
was that, when quite a young man, he carefully prepared an
oration for delivery at some college commencement, I think- It
was; he committed it to memory, started to deliver it, got about
half through, forgot the rest, floundered to the end, and re-
solved never to repeat the experiment. All this surprised me so

4474

APRIL 9,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1055.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

that after I had concluded that he did not write his speeches I
heard him with ever-increasing wonder. When he delivered
his speech of a full hour's duration on the Philippine tariff
bill, I sat in flont of him and listened to every syllable to see
if he made a slip of the tongue or used a word where a synonym
would improve it. He made only one slip, using "worser" for
worse," and corrected that on the instant.
Nevertheless, let no man conclude that his speeches were un-
prepared, for none were ever more carefully prepared. That
masterful and brilliant man, Thomas B. Reed, once, when dis-
gusted by some Member's speech containing several thousand
words and nothing more, said to me:
No gentleman has a right to pour his undigested Ideas upon a defense-
less House.
Whether DE ARMOND ever heard that dictum of Mr. Reed I
do not know; but he lived up religiously to Reed's idea, for
certainly he never poured any undigested ideas upon the House.
It must be confessed, however, that he digested them very sud-
denly sometimes. My own theory of how he prepared his
spoches is this: He would sit in his place hours at a time, ap-
parently contemplating the coats-of-arms on the ceiling, oblivious
to the uproar about him, clipping old envelopes and scraps of
paper with a pair of little pocket scissors. My judgment is
that while doing that he was thinking out and preparing a
speech, kneading it in his mind as a housewife kneads the
dough, and when he was through with that process his speech
was as carefully prepared and as thoroughly fixed in his mind
as though he had written it out word for word and committed
it to memory. That is my theory. It may be wholly wrong, but
I believe it to be entirely correct. I give it for what it is worth
in the hope that it may be of some value as a hint to young
speechma kers.
Man proposes, but God disposes. Originally Judge DE AR-
MOND had no desire to come to Congress. His ambition was
for a judicial career. He had been circuit judge and supreme
court commissioner, and desired to be judge of the supreme
court. He made a splendid circuit judge and supreme court
commissioner and would have ranked high on the supreme
bench; but it was not to be.
In 1S88 there were many capable Democrats in his congres-
sional district, among them WILLIAM JOEL STONE, then serving
his second term in the House, subsequently governor, and at
present United States Senator; James B. Gantt, now chief
justice of the supreme court of Missouri; and DE ARMOND him-
self. Gantt and STONE were both candidates for Congress, and
STONE defeated Gantt by 1 vote in the convention, thereby secur-
ing his third and last term in the I-louse. DE ARMOND was a
candidate for supreme judge, but was defeated. Whether by
agreement or accident I am not advised, but it so happened that
in 1S90 STONE was not a candidate for any office, while Gantt
and DE ARaMOND swapped positions, Gantt running for supreme
judge and DE ARMOND for Congress, and both succeeded. Gantt
has been on the supreme bench twenty years, rind is a candidate
without opposition in his own party for another term of ten
years. DE ARMOND was elected to Congress ten times,. and died
in harness.
Two or three years ago I asked him which he would prefer,
ten years on the supreme bench of Missouri or ten years more
in Congress. He replied, "If I could be put back to 1888, I
would prefer the supreme bench, but I have been here so long
that I have grown used to it and like it, and would prefer ten
years more of Congress." How Judge Gantt feels about it I am
not advised.
I could easily have written a more rhetorical speech than
this, but I chose to analyze honestly and fairly the sources of
power of Judge DE ARMOND as I saw and knew him and as I
believe he would have done by me were our situations ex-
changed. His death was so sudden and so tragic as to shock
the entire country. He now takes his place with the distin-
guished Missourians who have so well illustrated and adorned
the history of our free and beneficent institutions.
Mr. CALDERHEAD. Mr. Speaker, I regard it a privilege to
add a few wordsas a friend in memory of a mlan whose friendship
I have enjoyed ever since I have been a Member of this House.
I have listened with gratitude to the eloquent tributes that have
been paid to his character and his services. He was all that gen-
tlemen have said here, and then there was a vein in his charac-
ter that will not appear when what we say about him is written
and read.
I came to know him in my first service in the Fifty-fourth
Congress, chiefly because he came from the county with which
I had some acquaintance long before he was there. I knew
the town in which he lived when there were but a few bare

chimneys standing over the ruins of the houses that had been
burned away during the war. I knew the county when there
were not half a dozen fenced fields in it.
Very soon after the war came the immigration from Ohio,
Illinois, and some other States in the North that went into that
county, amongst them many of my father's friends and some
schoolmates of my boyhood. My mother and brother sleep in
a little country cemetery in the western boundaries of that
county, in an oak grove, that has been used as a burial ground
since the first settlement of that community. I knew all the by-
paths and roads that were opened in it and used long before he
came there to live. I knew the character of the people that he
represented in Congress, and amongst those who were his close
friends in Butler were men who were friends of myself when
I was a barefooted schoolboy in Ohio.
I mention these incidents to show how easily we came to a
personal acquaintance. Time after time we had a social hour
together concerning them, and the years passed without much
more than that until two years ago, when I was seriously'ill in
my hotel. He and his good wife occupied rooms near to mine
and were so solicitous and careful concerning me that I came
out endeared to them by their personal friendship and atten-
tion. After that many an evening the Judge and I spent to-
gether, sometimes in the discussion of a question that was in-
volved in the debates of the House, sometimes in discussing the
travels on which he had journeyed, and sometimes about inci-
dents of my own life in the intervening time between the time
I was In the county and the time when he came to it; sometimes
about the questions of great national policy for our Govern-
ment; sometimes upon the deeper problems of life that en-
deavor to penetrate the veil through which he has now passed
and beyond which for him the great problems are solved.
Concerning our own country, we agreed upon the fundamental
principles of our Government. We understood the Constitution
of our country in substantially the same way. We understood
the great and divine purpose of the life of man and the divine
purpose of the life of nations in the same way. We derived our
'faith from the same Revealed Word and looked forward to the
fulfillnent of the same hope, trusting in the same God.
We differed upon questions of administration and upon poli-
cies for the development of our country and the care of our
people; but he always had a clear and firm analysis, so that
sometimes I was unable to answer him in defense of my own
views as to what was the best policy for our country and what
would bring the best development of our Nation, and what would
preserve its power and its strength, to bring it to full maturity,
and make it a blessing not only to ourselves, but to the world.
And in the end these debates which we carry on daily in the
House serve, in a larger measure, the same purpose as these
private conversations that I have been recounting to you. I
think it was noticed by some one here to-day that Judge DE
AnMOND did not have an opportunity to put on record much of
constructive work in the statesmanship with which he was so
ably endowed. Yet we must remember that under the edge of
his sharp pruning many a measure with which our side of the
House is credited has been trimmed down until it better fitted
the common welfare of this great people, with its many diverse
opinions.
His sharp criticism, his powerful sarcasm, his keen analysis
compelled us sometimes to yield a point here and a point there,
until the measure that we proposed came nearer to fitting the
needs of the people for whom we legislate. The country will
not know of these services of his. The true historian in a time
long after this, searching for the reason why legislation did not
go as far as we sometimes proposed, or sometimes did not go
as far as an ardent partisan upon our side would have carried
it, will find it was because the strong man from Missouri with
the keen mind was measuring it, taking its dimensions, and
laying them before the country.
Mr. Speaker, I have not prepared a discourse concerning;
Judge DE AM.sOND, and my only purpose in rising is to add my
word, as a personal friend, to the memory of the great man
whose friendship was an honor.
Mr. BORLAND. Mr. Speaker-
God moves In a mysterious way
His wonders to perform,
He plants his footstep in the sea
And rides upon the storm.
The tragic death of DAVID DE ARMOND removed suddenly
from the national stage one of the strong leaders of his party
and one upon whom the most weighty responsibilities rested.
No man could have foreseen the inscrutable Providence by
which such a brilliant career, so well rounded, so tempered by

1910.

4475

I



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1056.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

the ripeness of experience, so firmly founded upon the enduring
respect and esteem of a great constituency, so full of promise of
immediate and continual usefulness, should be brought to such
an untimely end.
When I entered Congress in March, 1909, I found, a strong
and influential delegation from the great State of Missouri, a
delegation conspicuous especially upon the Democratic side of
the House by the fact that it included within its ranks not only
the minority leader of the great national party, but also the
man upon whom that leadership might well have fallen. Judge
DE ARMOND had served nine continuous terms in the House of
Representatives, and by virtue of his clear and logical mind,
his great industry, his inflexible fidelity to principle and his
comprehensive grasp of the essential principles of free govern-
ment, had established such a marked position of respect and
had earned for himself so completely the confidence of his asso-
ciates that he was in fact a leader, although by his own dis-
interested friendship and party zeal he had been earnest in
conferr4ng the actual leadership of the great party upon another
brilliant Missourian, his friend and associate, the Hon. CHAMP
CLARK.
He came to Congress well equipped for the Important duties
of a national legislator. He had been a state senator in the
general assembly of Missouri. He had presided as circuit
Judge with signal ability in the courts of a splendid judicial
circuit. My first recollection of him was when as a boy I
entered upon the study of law In the office of the general at-
torneys of the old Kansas City, Fort Scott and Gulf Railroad
Company, at Kansas City. Judge DE ARMOND was then a judge
of a circuit through which the railroad ran. He was known
as an able and fearless jurist, and he left Indelibly the im-
pression of his strong personality upon all with whom he came
in contact.
To his training as circuit judge he added the ripening ex-
perience of his service as supreme court commissioner of the
State of Missouri. Then he was chosen by the people of his
district their Representative in Congress. So singularly fortu-
nate was the choice and so well equipped was be by training
and temperament to represent his district that he was returned
to each succeeding Congress. However fierce the political
storms that swept over the State of Missouri, his district re-
mained faithful to his leadership. His place in Congress was
a rock of Gibraltar upon which the ebb and flow of political
tides had no effect.
I have said to the people of his district, who are my neigh-
bors and friends, and I repeat here, that the sixth district of
Missouri is one of the most, if not the most, distinctively Ameri-
can districts In the United States. It is the typical American
district, animated by American Ideals, cherishing the heritage
of American liberty, unfaltering In Its allegiance to the funda-
mental American principle of equal rights and local self-govern-
ment. The people of that district are Americans, with less
Intermixture of recent foreign immigration than possibly any
other district in the United States. It is such a district which
chose Judge DE ARMOND as its leader and Representative, and
well he filled such a position. In the Congress of the United
States he stood out conspicuously as the most American of
Americans.
That great body contains,. as it should, typical representa-
tives of every section of this great Nation, men who express
the ideals of Puritan New England, men who are typical of the
chivalric knighthood of the old South, men who bring to us
the adventurous spirit of the pioneer West, men who embody
the commercial greatness of the busy marts of trade, men who
have all the hopes and views and sympathies of the newer
American citizens, who constantly are enriching our national
life. Among all these men, so aptly and fittingly representing
the varied phases of a great nation, I place Judge Dr ARMOND
as the clear-cut type of that broad stream of Americanism
which extends like a great golden band from the Alleghenies
across the Mississippi Valley, and which historians have come
to regard as the leavening influence which enters into the great,
undigested mass of emigration and turns it into an orderly body
of American citizenship, burning with a high patriotism un-
known and unknowable in any other land.
The American Congress is full of strong men, men who by
their personality, native ability, and force of character have
made themselves conspicuous among the thousands of their fel-
low-citizens who constitute a great congressional district.
Among such strong men of strong personalities this little giant
of the sixth Missouri district towered to a conspicuous place.
It was the force of his intellect? Yes, to a certain extent. It
was the force of his industry and conscientious devotion to

duty? That also is true, -but was no less true of many other
men. The thing which made DE ARMOND great was his greatness
of soul, which made his associates realize his inflexible fidelity
to the American principle of equal rights. To him equal rights
meant no less the vigorous assertion of his own proper claims
and those of the people of his district than a just and kindly
consideration of the rights of all people and all districts. He
would no more encroach upon the rights of others than he would
permit the invasion of his own. He was scrupulously exact
in refusing any especial advantage to himself. He would not
stultify himself by seeking undue advantages or accepting undue
favors, which he knew were not consistent with the justice
which he owed to others. This trait of his character was famil-
iar to his associates and shines like a brilliant fixed star, in
what is sometimes regarded by the pessimistic as a black mid-
night of political corruption, special privilege, and graft. If
more public servants had the high courage of their convictions
to refuse unearned favors and.special privileges to themselves,
there would be no note of pessimism in American politics. It is
the acceptance of favors not deserved and of special privileges
without adequate public compensation that constitutes the first
step out of the straight and narrow path of honest self-govern-
ment toward the bottomless pit of corruption and graft. No man
saw this more clearly or lived it more truly than DAVID A.
DE ARMOND. His life is a lesson to all young legislators and his
example should be heralded to the world as proof of the eter-
nal vitality of the principles of self-government.
And now he is gone, leaving the indelible impress of his ex-
ample upon our national political life, and having written an-
other brilliant page in the rich and varied history of the great
Commonwealth of Missouri. We cherish his memory and add
it to our common heritage of great traditions, which underlie
like a broad foundation the splendid edifice of the perpetuity
of our Republic.
The tumult and the shouting dies,
The captains and the kings depart;
Still stands thine ancient sacrifice,
A humble and a contrite heart ;
Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet,
Lest we forgetI Lest we forget!
Mr. MORGAN of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, in memory of a
dear friend I would add a few words of tribute.
DAVID A. DE ARMOND and I, as young men from the North,
located in adjoining counties in southwest Missouri more than
forty years ago. Meeting frequently In our legal relations, in
our masonic gatherings and political assemblages, we became
from the first intimate friends, and always remained so.
He immediately made a favorable Impression upon the com-
munity in which he dwelt. His manners were refined and
dignified and he gave to all an impression of reserved force
of character and intellectual strength. He took a lively interest
in the well-being of the little town in whose almost rural con-
fines his destiny was cast, not, however, in the commercial spirit
of to-day, but in its larger growth of education, morals, and the
civic virtues.
At this time he was an enthusiastic Mason, and in his daily
life and practice lived up" to the best teachings of the order.
As a young lawyer he was distinguished by his fidelity to
his clients and the assiduous study of his profession, so that
the community of Greenfield soon regarded him as the leader
of the bar in their county and circuit. With the passing years
his fame as a safe counselor and brilliant advocate became
extended and he was called to the bench, where, as in the active
practice, his career was marked by the same untiring industry,
by profound opinions, great learning, and impartial 'decisions.
He yielded reluctantly to the wishes of his personal and party
friends and entered upon a political career. Having done so,
however, his ability as a speaker and his personal popularity
gave him immediate success. His powers as an organizer,,
orator, and defender of the Democratic faith was recognized
throughout the State. As a candidate his methods were honor-
able; his position as to party policies was always well known;
he never indulged in personal abuse, nor was he ever guilty of
an unfair act.
We frequently acted together in party conventions, espousing
the same cause, supporting the same candidates, and on several
occasions were ourselves opposing candidates for party honors.
I can knowingly assert his uniform fairness and kindness, his
manly conduct under defeat, and all freedom fro n the spirit
of envy and his gentle modesty in the hour of his triumph.
He was tolerant of the opinions of others. Ie was a man of
strong convictions, but he conceded to others what he reserved

4476

APRIL 9,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1057.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

for himself-the right of individual opinion and perfect freedom
of thought and action.
You are all familiar with his career as a Representative in
Congress. The eulogies here pronounced to-day are just trib-
utes to the man, and I will not attempt to add to them, but con-
tent myself by saying that I regarded him as one of the most
useful, one of the ablest and most patriotic men who ever served
in this body.
Should*I be called upon to name his greatest characteristic,
I would say his love for the masses of the people and a desire
for their welfare.
There was never the shadow of a stain on his fair name nor a
blemish on his public career; in his passing away his party lost
a wise counselor and the country a faithful servant.
It was in his private life, however, that we who knew him
best admired and loved him most. He gave his fullest confi-
dence to his intimate friends, revealing a nature strong, tender,
steadfast, loving, generous. He was, indeed, a fond father,
ever solicitous for the welfare of his children, and to the wife
of his youth, Alice Long, who still survives him, a devoted
husband.
His memory will be cherished in the State he so long honored.
Mr. BRANTLEY. Mr. Speaker, the question Is sometimes
asked why men of superior talents, of great industry, and of
pleasing personality are willing to give the long service here
that some of them do; a service that necessarily robs them, to
a large extent, of the joys and happiness of home life, of the
society and companionship of lifetime friends, and in many
instances denies them the income that their professional and
business skill would yield if turned in the direction of producing
revenue. The lure of applause and publicity and the fascination
of the game of politics would probably be the answer as to some,
while as to others it could be truly said that love of country and
a compelling desire to be of service to the toiling masses of man-
kind is the inspiring motive.
It is popular and sometimes financially profitable among
certain elements of our day and time to decry patriotism, or
at least to deny its existence among those whom the people in
their patriotic faith have placed in power to serve the cause
of patriotism. Should such a belief become prevalent through-
out the land, It would be the confession of incapacity for self-
government and an acknowledgment that'the majority of the
people in each congressional district had not the intelligence
or had not the honesty and the patriotism to select fit men to rep-
resent them, and it would mean the .end of government by the
people. Such a belief, however, is not generally prevalent, as
is demonstrated in the high character and patriotic purpose
of the great majority of the men who continually find seats in
this Chamber, and the Republic lives and patriotism lives
despite the railings of the pessimists and those who would de-
stroy the Government by destroying confidence in it.
To those admitted to membership here it does not take long
to discover that differences in home environment and home in-
terests and in fixed preconceived opinions as to certain prin-
ciples of government account for differences in voting. The
lesson that is here first learned is that honest differences of
opinions exist, and that such differences do not suggest a lack
of patriotism, much less the presence of corruption.
The thought, however, that I intended to give utterance to
was simply that there are men here now, as there have been
in the past and will be in the future, who are seriously con-
cerned for the common weal and who freely give of their time
and talents, to the end that government by the people shall en-
dure, and men whose chief ambition is to unfetter and uplift
struggling humanity.
Of this type was our lamented colleague, Judge DE ARMOND,
whose many virtues we to-day recall and exalt. The mention
of his name leads to the further suggestion that one of the most,
if not the most, potent charm to hold the average man here is
the contact with the keen and sometimes brilliant intellects and
the association with the many delightful personalities that are
here found. To be privileged to enjoy an Intimate personal
acquaintance with Judge DE ARMOND would be, as it has been
to many in the past, ample compensation for many years of
time and labor in the public service expended. His was a won-
derful personality. He stood unique and alone in his class.
There was no one else In it. Nobody ever said of some one else
that he was like DE ARMOND, and no one ever said that DE
ARMOND was like any other person.
Throughout his entire service, covering a period of almost
nineteen years, he was one of the notable figures in the House.

H6 was one of its'ornaments; one who illustrated in his every
utterance, its dignity, ability, and patriotism, and did so in a
style and manner peculiarly his own. He was not an imitator,
nor was he a follower. He blazed his own pathway, and in his
own inimitable fashion left an impress such as few men have
left, and carved for himself a niche in the temple of fame, sepa-
rate and apart from those carved by his predecessors or that
will be carved by his successors. Others as great or greater
than he have come and gone, and others yet will come and go,
but his place will always be DE ARMOND'S.
His training was judicial, and so thorough was this training
that one would never have to be told of it, for it revealed itself
in his every utterance. He spoke always with judicial au-
thority; and, Indeed, he spoke as authority itself, for, familiar
as he was with the great precedents established by the courts,
he never referred to a case by name or volume; he selected the
principle established and asserted it in his own language, and
It came from him as the decree of the court itself. He never
quoted, nor did I ever see book or paper or memorandum
before him when he was speaking; and yet his command of
language was so great, his flow of words so smooth and even,
that one could listen and imagine that he was reading from a
book prepared by some master of diction. But, wonderful as
was his diction, it was not more so than the clearness and dis-
tinctness of his enunciation. The complaint has often been
made of difficulty In being heard in this Chamber, and yet
Judge DE ARMOND could be heard in every nook and corner of
it, although speaking always in a conversational tone. Not only
was his language that of the judge, but it was uttered in the
tone and manner of a judicial deliverance.
A mere reference, however, to his manner of speaking, re-
markable as it was, would not do him the justice that his great
achievements deserve. He was here for many long years, and
he was always actively and prominently here, taking part in
all the great debates on all the great subjects that came up
for discussion. He never entered a debate but to illumine
it, and in his time he contributed much to the common store
of knowledge and to the wise solution of many trying and
disturbing problems. Men might sometimes, and did, disagree
with the conclusions reached by him, but none could ever ques-
tion the force with which he announced them or the clearness
of the reasoning by which he reached them; and, once they
were announced, so forcefully were they stated, they demanded
a reply from those who opposed them.
He was a great debater and, when aroused, was a foeman
well to be avoided.
There is nothing in all the realm of nature more interesting,
more absorbing, or more wonderful than a well-adjusted,
smoothly poised, brilliant human mind in rapid-fire action, with
its full power in use.
We sometimes marvel at the modern printing press, when
we see the sheet of white paper enter into its grasp to be al-
most immediately discharged therefrom in the form of a great
newspaper, printed, pasted, folded, and ready for the mail; but
is that comparable to the wonder of the human mind that re-
ceives a suggestion and in an instant of time analyzes and di-
gests it, frames a reply-crushing, absolute, and complete-
and hurls it back from whence the suggestion came? When
wit attacks wit and strong mind clashes with strong mind,
the flashes of intellectual power that come forth thrill, uplift,
and inspire as no mere physical performance can do. Time
and again those of us who have been here for some time have
witnessed all this and more when Judge DE ARMOND, strongly
stirred with the zeal of forensic combat, was pitted against a
foeman worthy to challenge his great intellect, and time and
again we have witnessed the spontaneous outburst of applause
-that came from friend and foe alike as a tribute to the match-
less mind with which he was gifted.
It has been said of him that he was not an orator in the
true sense, and all will agree that the conversational and
judicial style usually adopted by him for his speeches bore no
resemblance to oratory, and yet when he was aroused he could
add an emphasis to his words that startled and aroused. But
more than that, he had the power of word selection such as
few men possess, so that it was not the way his words were
spoken, but it was the words themselves that commanded and
held attention. He had the power to attract and hold, to
arouse interest and enthusiasm, and to sway the will of those
who listened. What more can oratory do?
To those, who knew Judge DE ARMOND well and intimately
it sounds strange to hear him pronounced cold and distant, be-
cause he was anything but that; and yet his diffidence, his re-
tiring modesty, and his fondness for dwelling upon his own

1910.

4477



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1058.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

thoughts made him appear at times to have a disposition that
was utterly foreign to his nature. He was the most genial
and kindly of men, as those who were his intimates so well
knew. No man was fonder than he of exchanging thoughts
and ideas in quiet converse with his friends, and no man en-
joyed more than he the social friendly intercourse with his
fellow-men. The best side of him, as the good friend, wise
counselor, and charming companion was in the Judiciary Com-
mittee room, where he served for so many years, and fortunate
were those of us who were privileged there to serve with him,
for there it was we learned to know him best and to admire
him most.
In my judgment the qualities and powers possessed by him
fitted him best to serve in the House with his political party
in the minority. I never knew him when his party and mine
was in power, but his greatest strength was undoubtedly in
criticism and in analysis, and he was by no means a gentle and
forbearing critic. Nature endowed him with a judicial mind,
and to this natural endowment was added the training of the
bench. The judge does not construct; he construes; he ex-
amines, analyzes, and compares, and those were the things
Judge DE ARMOND did for every measure that he took up for
discussion. It was in work of this kind that he excelled, and
in its performance he brought to bear not only keen and sharp
analysis, but a wealth of scorn, derision, and sarcasm, such as
no other man who served with him during my stay here has
possessed.
I love best to think of him, however, In his hours of ease and
confidence, when all restraint was removed and he unfolded to
view all those sweeter and gentler qualities that made him the
real true man that he was. It was this thought of him that
came to me when the news of his tragic and fearful death was
flashed across the wires. The ways of Providence are inscruta-
ble and beyond our finding out, but it seems to me that the
pathos and the tragedy of his ending has served as nothing else
could do to reveal the fountains of love that played within him
and to expose as perhaps would otherwise never have been done
the serene greatness of his soul. When danger and death beset
us, it is not' all of us who can stoop to comfort, to succor, and
to save another, and yet that Is what he did. The faith and
couidence in him of the little grandchild who went into fiery
death with him was not misplaced, for although in that dread-
ful hour lie could not save, he could die repeating assurances
of safety to the end. In his death a brave spirit, a lofty soul,
and a giant intellect passed the way of all earth, and while we
mourn and lament that lie has gone, we can and do rejoice that
he lived, and we are proud that we knew him and could claim
him as friend.
ADJOURNMENT.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In pursuance of the resolutions
already adopted, and as a further mark of respect to the mem-
ory of our distinguished colleague, the House will now adjourn
until'to-morrow at 12 o'clock.
Accordingly (at 5 o'clock and 26 minutes p. in.) the House
adjourned.
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS.
Under clause 2 of Rule XXIV, a letter from the Secretary
of the Interior, transmitting, in response to the inquiry of the
House, data relative to the Ozark National Forest (H. Dc.
No. 847)-to the Committee on the Public Lands and ordered
to be printed.
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON PUBLIC BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS.
Under clause 2 of Rule XIII, bills and resolutions were sev-
erally reported from committees, delivered to the Clerk, and
referred to the several calendars therein named, as follows:
Mr. TIRRELL, from the Committee on the Judiciary, to
which was referred the bill of the House (H. R. 22011) to
amend an act entitled "An act to expedite the hearing and de-
termination of suits in equity pending or hereafter brought
under te act of July 2, 1890, entitled 'An act to protect trade
and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies,' 'An
act to regulate commerce,' approved February 4, 1887, or any
other acts having a like purpose that may be hereafter en-
acted," approved February 11, 1903, reported the same with
amendment, accompanied by a report (No. 976), which said bill
and report were referred to the House Calendar.

Mr. LOUDENSLAGER, from the Committee on Naval Affairs,
to which was referred the bill of the House (H. R. 24251) to
authorize the Secretary of the Navy to use interchangeably
among the bureaus of the Navy Department the appropriations
made for said bureaus for the year 1911, reported the same
without amendment, accompanied by a report (No. 977), which
said bill and report were referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
PUBLIC BILLS, RESOLUTIONS, AND MEMORIALS.
Under clause 3 of Rule XXII, bills, resolutions, and memorials'
of the following titles were Introduced and severally referred
as follows:
By Mr. DAWSON: A bill (H. R. 24313) to amend an act
entitled "An act providing for leaves of absence to certain em-
ployees of the Government," approved February 1, 1901-to the
Committee on Naval Affairs.
By Mr. CRAIG: A bill (H. R. 24314) making appropriation
for the completion of the wall on the southern boundary line
of the United States court-house and post-office building lot in
Anniston, Ala.-to the Committee on Public Buildings and
Grounds.
By Mr. HAMER: A bill (H. R. 24315) to authorize contracts
for the delivery of waters of projects under the reclamation
act, and for other purposes-to the Committee on Irrigation
of Arid Lands.
By Mr. BOUTELL: A bill (H. R. 24316) to amend an act
entitled "An act donating public lands to the several States and
Territories which may provide colleges for the benefit of agri-
culture and the mechanic arts," approved July 2, 1862, and the
acts supplementary thereto, so as to extend the benefits thereof
to the District of Columbia-to the Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. MONDELL: A bill (H. R. 24317) to improve the pub-
lic building at Sheridan, Wyo.-to the Committee on Public
Buildings and Grounds.
By Mr. RANDELL of Texas: A bill (H. R. 24318) to pro-
hibit the giving or receiving of gifts, employment, or compensa-
tion from certain corporations by Senators, Representatives.
Delegates, or Resident Commissioners in the Congress of the
United States, or Senators, Representatives, Delegates, or Resi-
dent Commissioners-elect, and the judges and justices of the
United States courts, and prescribing penalties therefor-to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. AIKEN: A bill (H. R. 24365) to provide for the erec-
tion of a monument to Brig. Gen. Andrew Pickens-to the Com-
mittee on the Library.
By Mr. CARTER: A bill (H. R. 24366) for the acquisition
of a site and the erection of a public building thereon at Tisho-
mingo, Okla.-to the Committee on Public Buildings and
Grounds.
Also, a bill (-. R. 24367) making an appropriation for the
construction of a road over Winding Stair and Kiamichi moun-
tains, In Le Flore County, Okla.-to the Committee on Appro-
priations.
By Mr. KINKEAD of New Jersey: A memorial of the legis-
lature of New Jersey, favoring the promotion of Maj. Gen.
D. E. Sickles to the rank of lieutenant-general of the United
States Army-to the Committee on Military Affairs.
PRIVATE BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS.
Under clause 1 of Rule XXII, private bills and resolutions of
the following titles were Introduced and severally referred as
follows:
By Mr. ALLEN: A bill (H. R. 24319) granting an Increase
of pension to Augustus F. Bradbury-to the Committee on In-
valid Pensions.
By Mr. AMES: A bill (H. R. 24320) granting an increase of
pension to James E. Curtis--to the Committee on Invalid Pen-
sions.
By Mr. BEALL of Texas: A bill (H. R. 24321) for the relief
of heirs of W. K. Moore, deceased-to the Committee on War
Claims.
By Mr. CALDER: A bill (H. R. 24322) granting a pension to
James Meagher-to the-Committee on Invalid Pensions.
By Mr. CALDERHEAD: A bill (H. R. 24323) granting an
increase of pension to Abby B. Cloud-to the Committee on
Invalid Pensions.
By Mr. CAPRON: A bill (H. R. 24324) granting an increase
of pension to Henry E. Sheldon-to the Committee on Invalid
Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. R. 24325) granting an increase of pension to
Thomas J. Leonard-to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.

4478

APRIL 9,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1059.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

Also, a bill '(H. R. 24326) granting an increase of pension to
John B. Doclray, jr--to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. 11. 24327) granting an increase of pension to
Edward Yost--to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
By Mr. DALZELL: A bill (H. R. :24328) granting an increase
of pension to Noah C. Higgs-to the Committee on Invalid Pen-
sions.
By Mr. EDWARDS of Kentucky. A bill (H. R. 24329) grant-
Ing an increase of pension to Isaac D. Greer-to the -Committee
.on Invalid Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. R. 24330) granting an increase of pension to
Addison Morefield-to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. R. 24331) granting an increase of pension to
John J. Evans-to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. R. 24332) granting an increase of pension to
John W. Cook-to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. R. 24333) granting an increase of pension to
Samuel Bailey--to the Committee ,on Invalid Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. R. 24334) granting an -increase of pension to
James Wages-to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. 1. 24335) granting an increase of pension to
William 11. Kelsay-to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. R. 24336) granting an increase of. pension to
Alexander Combs-to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. It. 24337) granting an increase of pension to
James F. Sullivan-to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. R. 24338) granting a pension to David
Turner-to the Committee on Pensions.
Also, a bill"(H. R. 24339) granting a pension to Isaac C.
Livingston-to the Committee on Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. R. 24340) granting a pension to May Simp-
son-to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
By Mr. FISH: A bill (H. R. 24341) granting a pension to
Rosaila Wheeler Bushnell-to the Committee on Invalid Pen-
sions.
By Mr. HEALD: A bill (H. R. 24342) for the relief of the
estate of Bernard Moore-to the Committee on War Claims
By Mr. HOWLAND: A bill (H. IL 24343) granting an in-
crease of pension to Griflith B. Jones-to the Committee on In-
valid Pensions.
By Mr. HULL of Iowa: A bill (H. R. 243>4) -granting an in-
crease of pension to Nathaniel Little-to the Committee on In-
valid Pensions.
By Mr. KENDALL: A bill (H. R. 24345) granting a pension
to Eliza Church-to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. R. 24346) granting a pension to James F.
Vernon-to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
.Also, a bill (H. R. 24347) granting a pension to William N.
Hunt-to the.Committee on Invalid Pensions.
By Mr. KINKAID of Nebraska: A bill (H. R. 24348) granting
an increase  of pension to Cyrus G. Stevens-to the Committee
on Invalid Pensions.
By Mr. LANGHAM: A bill (H. B. 24349) granting an in-
crease of pension to Mary E. Hinds-to the Committee on In-
valid Pensions.
By Mr. LANGLEY: A bill (H. R. 24350) for the relief of
Wesley Row-to the Committee on Military Affairs.
By Mr. McHENRY: A bill (H. R. 24351) granting an in-
crease of pension to Charles W. Raver-to the Committee on
Invalid Pensions.
By Mr. MARTIN of South Dakota: A bill (H. R. 24352) for
the relief of Patrick Dewire, alias Patrick O'Donnell-to the
Committee on Military Affairs.
By Mr. MILLER of Minnesota: A bill 1(H. R. 24353) granting
an increase of pension to Henry Stephan-to the Committee on
Invalid Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. R. 24354) granting an increase of pension to
Andrew Brink-to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
Also, a bill (H. R. 243.55) granting a pension to Edward Wil-
son-to the Committee on Invalid Pensions.
By Mr. MORSE: A bill (H. R. 24356) for the relief of Elsie
J. Angler, Caroline Doxtator, John Bowman, Henry Jacobs,
Benjamin Jourdan, Zera Gardner, Joseph Howe, and Lizzie
Ware, allottees of the Stockbridge and Munsee tribe, for logs
