of tuberculosis, and especially tuberculosis of the lungs. I be-
lieve if there is to be an extension of the presumption of service
connection it should be extended to those suffering from tuber-
culosis, a most insidious disease, a disease where the man
afflicted wants to deny it up to the last moment, a disease which
is sometimes so slow in its progress and so difficult to diagnose
that we may with some degree of truth suggest that a man could
have incurred It in the service and still not be able to demon-
strate it, in its active form, before the 1st of January, 1930.
So this amendment of mine incorporates this very appealing
portion of the bill of my friend from Mississippi and provides
that there shall be a compensation for this disability from
tuberculosis where there has been an active condition before the
1st of January, 1930.
Then, third, and this is quite a different view on the bill, It
provides that to make and carry on the distinctions between
these classes whom we want to relieve, where those whose cases
under this bill rest upon presumption alone, they shall be paid
at the rate of 60 per cent only of the present rates of compensa-
tion.
Now, suggesting that 77,000 are known to be entitled to com-
pensation under the bill which we know as the Johnson bill,
and which we are now debating, there must be more than
double that number who will make application and whose cases
must be considered. We can not shut our eyes to the fact, no
matter how sympathetic we may be, that the great bulk of these
men are men who did not incur any disability whatever by
reason of their military or naval service in the war. It is true,
in a general way, that we must look after the helpless and the
disabled in this country in some form or other, and for this
reason I can well reconcile myself to many propositions put
forth in our pension and compensation measures; but to keep
the proper perspective it seems to me we must make a distinc-
tion in favor of those who actually suffered because of their
service. There were men just as brave, just as loyal to their
country, as those who stayed at home. There were courageous,
noble, and patriotic-men and women who never had an oppor-
tunity to serve in the armed forces. Our national policy is to
assume a responsibility for those who serve the country in the
most dangerous way in our emergencies. We should assume an
especial responsibility to those who actually suffered and are
handicapped by reason of their service. I advocate a slight
discrimination for those who were actually shot down, gassed,
or otherwise wounded on the battle field, and, then be as liberal
as the resources of the Nation permit toward those who suffered
and still suffer by reason of their service to the country in the
Army or Navy during the war. They are entitled to all the
liberal treatment and care which this great and prosperous and
wealthy Nation can give.
If now we do not distinguish between these unfortunate
soldiers who are disabled because of their service and those
who since the war have developed disabilities which only by
the use of the most arbitrary presumptive provision of law
can be connected with the military or naval service, then we
do not use good judgment nor wise discrimination. These three
things are present in the amendment or substitute for Article
10, which I present.
Mr. RANKIN. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. FITZGERALD. I yield.
Mr. RANKIN. I could not hear the gentleman plainly, but
I understand that he desires to extend the tubercular patients
up to 1930, and that was his attitude before the committee.
Mr. FITZGERALD. Yes.
Mr. RANKIN. Will the gentleman Include neuropsychiatric
patients?
Mr. FITZGERALD. I have not included them; I will say
that I followed the agreement that was entered into between
us in the committee. The amendment I shall offer was drafted
by the Veterans' Bureau. The gentleman will remember that
on that the committee stood 9 and 9 on our agreed amend-
ment to the Johnson bill. This amendment I propose embodies
our agreement.
Mr. RANKIN. Now, I want to ask the gentleman from
Ohio a further question: Is it not a fact that the strongest
appeal for any legislation at all comes with reference to the
tubercular men?

RECORD-HOUSE'

APRIL' 17

Mr. FITZGERALD. Yes; I think that I have already stated
that.
Mr. RANKIN. I did not hear it.
Mr. FITZGERALD. That is my reason for extending the
amendment to the tubercular men alone, which provides that
the rate of compensation for all cases to be given compensa-
tion by reason of this bill shall be 60 per cent of the present
rate, when the service connection rests upon presumption alone.
This discrimination ought to be made in the very beginning.
Just the moment we attempt any legislation which seeks to
give relief to disabled veterans whose disabilities are in no
way the result of their service, so soon should we make a dis-
tinction in the amount of the relief. It should not make a dif-
ference that the service pension is given in the guise of compen-
sation. To do otherwise would be calculated to arouse resent-
ment on the part of Civil War and our Spanish War veterans
and their friends. If we adopt my amendment and pay these
new presumptive cases on the basis of 60 per cent of the present
rates, stillowe are treating World War veterans more liberally
than those of any other war.
Sixty per cent will be gladly received by those who now get
nothing, but how serious must be the problem if ever, on an
attempt to adjust and harmonize our veteran relief legislation,
we would seek to cut down the rate of a pension once granted.
Mr. EVANS of California. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. FITZGERALD. Yes.
Mr. EVANS of California. Has the gentleman any informa:-
tion as to how many of these tubercular cases will be included
in his amendment?
Mr. FITZGERALD. I have not the figures, I have an esti-'
mate of the expense given by General Hines, in which he said
the cost would be $8,700,000 for advancing the presumptive
date to January 1, 1930, for tubercular cases alone. With
reference to paying the additional 10 per cent to those who
have disabilities caused by conflict with the enemy, in 'battle,
the expense would be $2,800,000 a year. The extras therefore
carried in the amendment, as I have prepared it, would total
$11,500,000, and so there would be a saving over the Johnson
bill as it now stands of $18,900,000, at least.
Mr. MOORE of Virginia. I was not aware when I inter-
rupted the gentleman that he proposed to incorporate his amend-
ment In the RECORD, so that we would know exactly what he has
suggested.
Mr. FITZGERALD. My proposed amendment will be printed
in the RECORD. As my amendment restates the entire section 10,
I thought it more easy of comprehension if I would explain the
three features. The 10 per cent extra for those actually
wounded and disabled in battle may be considered sentimental
and not especially called for, but it forms the basis for the
differentiation in treatment between those who have contributed
in different measure to the preservation and advancement of
this wonderful country which we are enjoying to-day.
Mr. OLIVER of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. FITZGERALD. Yes.
Mr. OLIVER of Alabama. The gentleman has made an in-
forming and interesting statement, which, I am sure, every
Member of the House will read with profit, and I ask in that
connection that the gentleman call attention to the letter
written by General Hines to the chairman of the Committee on
Rules, which also contains constructive comments and sugges-
tions. I appreciate the spirit in which the gentleman has dis-
cussed this legislation, as, I am sure, do other Members of the
House. It has not been in criticism of either the gentleman
from Mississippi [Mr. RANKIN] or the gentleman from South
Dakota [Mr. JOHNSON], both of whom I feel wish to do the
right thing for the veterans.
Mr. FITZGERALD. I thank the gentleman from Alabama
very much. It was his appearance before the Veterans' Com-
mittee and the splendid presentation of the wrongs that have
been endured by veterans because of the arbitrary regulation
73 that impelled me to go as far as I have with reference to
these cases of tuberculosis. I stand here in a very peculiar
attitude in seeking to amend this bill in a way which will
actually save $18.700,000 a year, and yet I do it feeling it
should be done before we go further with legislation which is
certainly of a pension nature.
Mr. HARE. Will the gentleman's amendment make any pro-
vision for those veterans who are totally and permanently dis-
abled regardless of the source or the time of their disability?
Mr. FITZGERALD. No. By my amendment I take the
Johnson bill as I find it. It is broader and more liberal than
the Rankin bill, because it includes all cases of disability of all
diseases up to the 1st of January, 1925. Then my amendment
goes further, and takes the liberal provision of the bill sug-



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0447.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-IIOUSE

gested by Mr. RANIIN, extending the period for the presumption
of service connection for tuberculosis cases to the 1st of Jan-
uary, 19.30, but it does not take care of the soldiers who may
be totally disabled, whose disability arises after the 1st of Jan-
uary, 1925, and has no connection with their service.
Mr. HARE. Does not the gentleman think that we have
quite a large number of veterans who are totally and perma-
nently disabled, who are unable to connect their disability with
the service, and who are now objects of charity, who ought to be
cared for in this bill?
Mr. FITZGERALD. Absolutely. The gentleman can readily
see that it would be an extraordinary case that would not de-
velop before the 1st of January, 1925, when the war was really
over in 1919.
Mr. HARE. I just had a report from the Veterans' Bureau
which says that there are 2,974 veterans who are totally dis-
abled at the present time, who are permanently disabled, and
yet they are unable to connect their disability with the service.
I know that in my district, and the gentleman knows that in his
district, there are one or two or more who are objects of
charity and who have been objects of charity for 8 or 10 years,
and I feel that there ought to be some provision in this bill
to take care of these deserving soldiers.
Mr. FITZGERALD. My colleague puts this sympafhetically,
but the gentleman realizes that there are so many of these cases
in which he and I rush to the Veterans' Bureau and find that the
man, perhaps, has been sent down to Camp Sherman and had
been there for three days and had been sent back because they
found that he had this particular disability and could not be
of service, and then when that man comes and asks for.my
help my entlusiasm sometimes wanes a little when I think of
real soldiers disabled and in misery who really deserve and by
their service have merited relief.
I add a copy of the letter General Hines referred to, with a
statement of costs involved and showing a saving of $18,900,000
a year over the Johnson bill as it now stands:
UNITED STATES VETERANS' BUREAU,
Washington, Mareh 12, 1930.
Hon. Roy G. FITZGERALD,
House of Representatives, Wa8hington, D. C.
Mty DEAR MAI. FITZGERALD: This Is in further reference to your
letter of March 3, 1930, requesting an estimate of the cost for certain
provisions contained in I-. R. 10381 in the event certain changes were
made therein.
In reply to the first inquiry as to the estimate of decreased cost If a
provision were inserted to limit the amount of compensation to be paid
on claims resting solely upon the new presumption of service connec-
tion authorized and directed by this bill, you are advised that if the
rates provided by law at the present time were reduced 60 per cent the
cost would be $45,600,000 annually. The present estimated cost of this
amend, d section is $76,000,000, assuming that the present rates would
be effective.
In reply to your inquiry as to the increased cost Involved by ex-
tending the present (late for presumption of service connection to Janu-
ary 1, 1930, only in cases of tuberculosis and limiting the compensation
payable therefor to 60 per cent of the present rates, you are advised
that such a provision would entail an additional cost of $8,700,000
annually.
Regarding the third question contained in your letter as to the in-
creased cost in the event 10 per cent were added to compensation paid
to veterans whose disabilities are results of battle casualty, or actual
conflict with the enemy, you are advised that the additional expendi-
ture occasioned thereby would be approximately $2,800,000 annually.
I trust this Is the information you desire.
A copy of this letter is inclosed for your use.
Very truly yours,
FRANK T. HINES, Director.
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 20 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma [Mr. JOHNSON].
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. Mr. Chairman, I have been
very much interested in the debate this afternoon in connection
with the pending bill to liberalize the World War veterans' act.
I think a majority of the Members of this House, and I am sure
all the disabled ex-service men of the country, will agree that
the veterans' act needs far more liberalizing than is proposed
or contemplated in the pending commaittee measure. The pres-
ent law, written to cope with the situation in 1924, is entirely
out of date in 1930. The pending bill does not give the relief
that I had confidently expected, but it will correct some of the
evils of the old law, slash the red tape in thousands of claims,
and be a forward step in meeting the Nation's obligations to her
disabled soldiers. I am going to support it, because I feel that
it is much better than no legislation at all. To say, however,
that your bill meets the demands of the American Legion, Vet-
erans of Foreign Wars, and other service men's organizations

is preposterous. To urge that this bill will relieve anything
like all worthy claims of our disabled veterans is not in keeping
with the facts. But even if this committee bill does not do
much more than skim the surface as far as the urgent needs
are concerned, and even though it denies service connection to
thousands of tubercular and mental cases, it is, nevertheless,
significant that every dollar paid under its terms will go to the
disabled veteran or his wife, widow, orphans, or other depend-
ents. I feel that it should pass without a dissenting vote, with
the Rankin amendment, if possible, but by all means pass the
bill in some form. This Government has too long delayed doing
justice by our disabled veterans, who are growing impatient
under endless red tape, extravagance, and incompetency.
In following the discussion thus far upon the floor relative
to the committee bill, and especially the speeches I have heard
with reference to the proposed Rankin amendment to the bill,
the outstanding argument against the passage of this legisla-
tion is the enormous expense. Some have placed the estimate
of cost of this measure, with or without the Rankin amendment,
at approximately $100,000,000. No one seems to know what it
will be. The best evidence appears to be that of General Hines,
Director of the Veterans' Bureau, who first estimated the
Rankin bill at $48,000,000, and later, I believe, changed his
figures to $44,000,000. General Hines also estimated that some
77,000 cases would come under the Rankin bill, or amendment.
Now it is a significant fact, as brought out in the hearings, that
more than 23,000 mental cases included in the Rankin bill
would be absolutely barred under the committee measure. In
addition to that, more than 18,000 tubercular cases that the
Rankin amendment proposes to care for would fail to come
under your committee measure. I do not care to hazard a
guess at what it will cost the Government under either measure,
but I can not conceive of this Congress connecting all claims of
all veterans who have disabilities of 10 per cent up to the year
of 1925, and, at the same time, refusing to recognize more than
40,000 tubercular and mental cases merely because they did
not file their claims before 1925.
Inasmuch as opponents of this legislation insist upon dis-
cussing the cost of caring for the disabled veterans, permit me
to remind Members of the House that you have passed many
bills here for more than $100,000,000 without a roll call. A
few weeks ago this House voted to spend $230,000,000 for public
buildings, and not a protest, as I recall, was raised against the
bill.
Early in the present session of Congress a law was passed
returning to the big interests of the country $190,000,000 of
income taxes. Some one has raised the point that if this bill is
passed, Congress will be compelled to repeal the law refunding
$190,000,000 income taxes. This, to my mind, is abundant rea-
son for this legislation. Why not let those millionaires who
profiteered to the tune of 500 to 700 per cent during the World
War, while our soldier boys worked for $1 a day, help pay cost
of this legislation for these disabled and helpless veterans?
Last December this House voted to relieve France of $407,000,-
000 of indebtedness to the United States. Some of you who are
now opposing this bill stood on the floor of the House and
pleaded eloquently for "poor poverty-stricken France."  You
were anxious to relieve France of the debt of $407,000,000 which
she owed the American people, in order to show your "broth-
erly love," but to the thousands of our own American soldiers
who lost their health in France and who are to-day looking to
this Congress for their very existence, you turn a deaf ear, put
your hands on your pocketbooks, with the flimsy excuse that it
will cost too much money. [Applause.]
Mr. Chairman, in the early part of the present session of Con-
gress I introduced a number of bills to amend the World War
veterans' "ict, looking to the relief of our disabled soldiers. In-
asmnuch as I may offer further criticism of the pending bill
before concluding my remarks, which criticism I trust will be
constructive, permit me to say I am delighted to find, after scru-
tinizing the committee bill, that certain provisions of my meas-
ures are incorporated in part in it. Since I shall not hesitate
to criticize: the weakness of the pending bill, I want to say in
all fairness that it has several commendable features, some of
which I desire to mention.
For example, the committee bill, when passed, will be of
assistance to those tubercular cases filed before 1925, many of
which have been turned down. If there was nothing else in
your bill except section 13, that proposes to amend subdivision
7, section 102, of the 1924 act, I would favor the bill, provided,
of course, we can do no better. If you will turn to page 22,
line 10, you will find it reads:
That any ex-service person shown to have had a tuberculous disease
of service origin, whether active or otherwise, shall receive compensation
of not less than $50 per month.

1930

7263



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0448.txt

7264

I am also in'hearty accord with a further provision to pay the
wife of a veteran in a hospital suffering with- tuberculosis and
whose income is less than $1,000 per year compensation at the
rate of $30 per month; a wife and child of such hospital patient,
$40 per month, with $5 for each additional child.
The bill further provides additional time for the filing of ap-
plication for disability compensation. Concerning misconduct
cases heretofore disallowed the committee bill provides that-
No person suffering from paralysis, paresis, or blindness shall be
denied compensation by reason of willful misconduct.
The cumbersome insurance law, with all of its red tape, has
also been somewhat broadened and clarified, and it is hoped
that it will not 'be necessary to employ additional attorneys to
interpret its meaning.
My bill, H. R. 7766, provided that-
Veterans suffering with chronic diseases which competent medical
judgment indicates was incurred, increased, or aggravated in the
service, such chronic diseases shall be held to be of service origin or
aggravation, notwithstanding the lack of historical affirmative evidence.
Immediately after introducing my bill I followed my usual
course of asking for a hearing. Not only did I request a hear-
ing on H. R. 7766 but also on the several other measures I
introduced for the relief of disabled war veterans. I was not
accorded a hearing on any of these bills, but I am not complain-
ing about that. I have understood that this so-caled omnibus
committee bill would take care of all necessary veterans' legis-
lation. The Veterans' Committee has labored tirelessly for
weeks and months and is to be commended for its sincere,
unselfish efforts. However, in looking over its bill very care-
fully I fail to find a paragraph, a sentence, or syllable favoring
the admission of competent medical evidence in establishing
claims of our disabled veterans. Your committee bill is as silent
as the sphinx of the desert on the question of admission of
evidence of the local doctors by bureau officials in establishing
disability claims.
I have no desire to criticize the Veterans' Bureau unjustly. I
have prosecuted many claims before the bureau, and, as a rule,
my claims have been successful. It has some 24,000 employees,
and a majority of those I have come in contact with, from the
director down, have impressed me as being high-class men and
women and thoroughly capable. But all of us know that one
of the most severe and oft-repeated criticisms heard on the floor
of the House against the Veterans' Bureau is the fact that so
little consideration is given to affidavits furnished veterans by
local doctors. Under the present rule and practice the bureau
has employed too many young fellows not long out of school,
many of whom have had little or no actual experience. The pay,
as I recall, is about $3,000 per year. No one expects competent
medical men for that small salary. It is very difficult to secure
successful practitioners for $3,000 per year. These school boys,
as a rule, know just enough to find fault with the diagnosis of
the competent local physician.
The claim of the veteran is promptly turned down because
the local doctor did not go into detail and use a lot of high-
sounding medical terms that a layman could not understand.
For example, this morning I appeared before the division of
appeals of the Veterans' Bureau on a tubercular case appealed
from the regional office In my State. The record of the case dis-
closed that the veteran had a hospital record while in the Army,
that he was suffering from acute bronchitis at the time of dis-
charge, and that only a few months thereafter a well-known
local doctor residing in the district I have the honor to represent
diagnosed his case as pulmonary tuberculosis, stating that the
claimant was having frequent hemorrhages, with subnormal
temperature.. Three other physicians whom I know personally,
and whose ability and integrity are beyond question, also ex-
amined him during the years of 1922, 1924, and 1929, and each
found the patient suffering from active pulmonary tuberculosis,
and so diagnosed the case. Even an insurance company rejected
his application as soon after the veteran's discharge as 1920 on
account of his weak lungs and bad heart, as determined by an
X ray. This poor fellow, who weighed 172 pounds piior to his
enlistment, is to-day a walking skeleton and absolutely unable
to perform a day's labor. He is one of the thousands who re-
fused to file a claim against his Government as long as he was
physically able to do work, even part of the time. When first
examined by bureau doctors in 1929 his case was diagnosed as
chronic pulmonary tuberculosis, far advanced "B" active. In
a little over 30 days thereafter, however, other alleged bureau
physicians, after a supposed-to-be examination, found, or, rather,
the record states they found, "no disease of chest found."
Shortly thereafter the claim of this veteran was disallowed.
The inconsistency, incompetency, and utter lack of sympathy for

APRIL 17

the veteran on the part of some of the bureau physicians is
absolutely appalling.
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. Yes.
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Did I understand the gentleman to say
that the veteran had not filed his claim until 1929?
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. Yes; that is the case. He had
not filed his claim until 1929, although four competent local
doctors who examined him gave clear and convincing evidence
that lie has had tuberculosis for 10 years at least.
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Then that case would not come under
the Johnson bill?
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. No; that case and thousands
of other similar cases could not possibly come under the Johnson
bill if it is passed without amendment.
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Then that appears to be a good argu-
ment for the so-called Rankin bill?
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. I think it is a very good argu-
ment for the Rankin bill, and I am cerli n there are thousands
of other cases similar to this in the districts of every Member of
Congress.
Often we have heard here the Pension Bureau compared with
the Veterans' Bureau by Members of Congress, and it is an open
secret that the Veterans' Bureau always suffers sadly by the
comparison. The Commissioner of Pensions accepts the find-
ings of a competent local doctor. That has not only proved
satisfactory but has eliminated much expense, and the tax-
payers are certainly entitled to some consideration in the enact-
ment of this legislation.
On the other hand, if a World War veteran can comply with
sufficient red tape to secure a medical examination by the bu-
reau, he Is sent to his nearest regional office at Government
expense. He waits in line for hours and sometimes days, and
then, too often, faces one of the bureau's so-called doctors, who
would not know a shrapnel wound from an ingrowing toenail.
The embryonic, supposed-to-be doctor looks wise and gives the
veteran an alleged examination. He seems to delight in telling
the veteran there is positively nothing wrong with him. In
some instances I have known bureau doctors to lecture veterans
and even scold them for taking up their valuable time. I have
one case in mind where a disabled soldier who was suffering
severely with a pain in his side was scolded and referred to as
"1a tramp" and "dead beat" by the examining bureau doctor.
He was sent home and not long thereafter died of the disability
of which he complained and had appealed many times to the
bureau for relief. I refer to a personal friend who died be-
cause of criminal negligence of a United States Veterans'
Bureau medical officer.
Can you imagine such a thing-one of our disabled soldiers
held up to contempt and scorn by one of these bureau doctors
and called " a tramp" and "a dead beat "? Shortly afterwards
this soldier died of the disability he complained of and I had the
sad and painful duty of being one of his pallbearers.
Mr. COCHRAN of Missouri. Mr. Chairman, will the gentle-
men yield?
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. Yes.
Mr. COCHRAN of Missouri. Will the Johnson bill do any-
thing for that man's widow and children?
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. I am sure it would not if lie
had any.
Mr. COCHRAN of Missouri. Will the Rankin bill do any-
thing for his widow and children?
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. I am not sure about that.
Mr. COCHRAN of Missouri. When did the man die?
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. About two years ago, July,
1928, I believe.
Mr. COCHRAN of Missouri. The Veterans' Bureau denied
his claim?
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. Yes; for many months prior
to his last illness his claim was denied. But, may I add, that
after the veteran died the bureau suddenly decided that the
bureau doctors were wrong and allowed the claim, and his de-
pendent mother was granted a small allowance.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. That will not help the man
now?
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. No; it will not help him now,
but the point I want to convey is that, under the present law
and under the Johnson bill, little or no consideration is given
to the evidence of competent local doctors.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. This is entirely a pre-
sumptive bill. If the man is disabled, he is presumed to have
incurred his disabilities in the service. The gentleman says
he is for the so-called Rankin amendment, because it will help
more people?

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0449.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. Yes. I am for the Rankin bill,
because I think it will take care of the innumerable tubercu-
losis and mental cases who filed their claims since 1925, and
who are absolutely ignored in your bill.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. How does the gentleman
come to the conclusion that the Rankin bill, with an expendi-
ture of $47,000,000, would take care of more men than the
Johnson bill, with an expenditure of $100,000,000?
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. Frankly, I think the gentleman
is begging the question. He very well knows I quoted figures
from the sworn testimony of Director Hines. Granting that
the gentleman's bill will take care of more cases up until 1925,
I submit tha t Congress can not afford to ignore the 40,000 men-
tal and tuberculosis .cases. Those figures are in the record.
I am of the opinion, however, that neither the director nor
the gentleman from South Dakota have any definite information
as to what his bill will cost.
Permit me to say further to the gentleman from South
Dakota that I am for his bill, but let me suggest to him and
other Members of the House that the Rankin amendment would
greatly strengthen his bill. It would be a happy compromise
to adopt the Johnson bill, that takes care of all cases up to
1925, and then add the Rankin amendment, to care for the
many tuberculosis and mental cases that would not come under
the Johnson bill.
The CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentleman from Okla-
homa has expired.
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. Mr. Chairman, inasmuch as I
have been interrupted several times, I would like to have a
little more time.
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 10 minutes more to the
gentleman.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Oklahoma is recog-
nized for 10 minutes more.
Mr. COCHRAN of Missouri. Mr. Chairman, will the gentle-
man yield?
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. Yes; I will be glad to yield
again to the gentleman from Missouri.
Mr. COCHRAN of Missouri. The gentleman says he is In
favor of the Rankin bill because it will take care of these addi-
tional cases.
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. Answering, I will say that the
Rankin amendment provides for all chronic or constitutional
cases who file their claims before 1930.
Mr. COCHRAN of Missouri. Provided that the. Veterans'
Bureau does not prove that the man was not disabled during
the time of his service. The only way to reach a case like
that is by the passage of the Swick bill, or the bill I introduced
two years ago.
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. Permit me to suggest to my
colleague from Missouri that neither his bill nor the Swick
measure is before the House at this time. If this bill is not
full and broad enough, I shall be glad to assist my good friend
in passing the Swick bill c,- some other meritorious measure.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. The gentleman must know
that the President would probably veto such a bill.
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. I will say to the gentleman
that I do not know that; neither does he. I do not pretend to
speak for the President. But I must add that during my lim-
ited experience in Congress I have never seen so many who
professed to be spokesman for the President.
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. Yes; I am delighted to yield
to the able gentleman from Mississippi.
Mr. RANKIN. The Johnson bill will cost more than the
Rankin bill because the Rankin bill would be limited to those
cases to the rating of the schedule of the Veterans' Bureau, but
the Johnson bill leaves out the tubercular men and the neuro-
psychiatric men. By the Rankin bill we will reach more men
who are in a serious condition and at a cost of less money.
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. I thank the gentleman from
Mississippi for his contribution.
I am informed by an official of the United States Veterans'
Bureau, hi whom I have confidence, that my competent medical
evidence bill, if passed, would connect many thousands of
worthy cases of disabled veterans that have been disallowed
under the existing law. I submit for the earnest consideration
of this House that an amendment incorporating the competent
medical-judgment provisions should, in fairness to the veterans,
be written into this so-called omnibus measure.
Another section of my bill, which I was unable to get a
hearing on, provided for the admission of "lay" evidence, or,
in other words, evidence from a disabled veteran's comrades
and friends. I note this bill provides that " due consideration
shall be given lay evidence." Those words "due consideration"
LXXII-458

are mighty weak, vacillating, and almost meaningless. Some
one has said that when a Member of Congress is opposed to a
measure and is solicited to vote for it, he invariably answers
with the old stereotyped reply, "I shall be glad to give the
matter due consideration." The law governing the Veterans'
Bureau in these cases should be specific and mandatory. One
of the greatest indictments against the old law enacted in 1924
is that it is too elastic and permits entirely too much "due con-
sideration" on the part of the bureau officials.
For example, during the late unpleasantness I stood within
a few feet of my dearest chum and buddy when he was pain-
fully, seriously, and perhaps permanently injured while in action
in the front lines. This young man has not seen a well day
since his discharge from the Army. A few years ago I sub-
mitted a sworn statement to the Veterans' Bureau, setting out
my personal knowledge of the facts in connection with the
soldier's injuries.
I being a layman and not a member of the medical profession,
the Veterans' Bureau, after "due consideration," rejected my
testimony and held that the soldier's disability was not of serv-
ice origin. Even if this and other worthy claimants fail to
obtain relief under the pending bill, it will probably be of
great consolation to them to know that the Congress of the
United States has ordered, adjudged, and decreed that, here-
after, sworn evidence given in the veterans' behalf must needs
have "due consideration." [Applause.]
Another bill introduced by me, but which the committee was
evidently too busy with greit perplexing and nation-wide prob-
lems like, for instance, putting uniforms on bellhops and ele-
vator boys at the United States Veterans' Bureau and thus
further increasing an already unreasonable overhead expense,
as provided in your committee bill, to give even "due consider-
ation," is H. I. 8152. The provisions of my measure are some-
what similar to the Rankin bill and would extend the presump-
tive period for 10 years from date of the soldier's discharge in
cases of chronic diseases. Under the pending committee bill the
presumptive period is extended until 1925, which, I think all
will agree, is the outstanding feature of this bill. Under the
terms of this committee bill all veterans who are given a rating
of 10 per cent disability or over-by the bureau's alleged doctors
are presumed to have contracted such disabilities, regardless of
the nature of same, in the service, and the burden of proof is to
be taken off the veterans' shoulders and placed on the Veterans'
Bureau. Under the amendment which the gentleman from Mis-
sissippi [Mr. RANKIN] has given notice lie will offer the pre-
sumptive period on all chronic and statutory cases is proposed
to be extended until 1930. I have endeavored to make it plain
that I sincerely trust the Rankin amendment will prevail.
We have heard considerable discussion this afternoon in
defense of the officers emergency retirement bill passed by the
last Congress. Congress has been magnanimous with the dis-
abled emergency officers of the World War. With one fell
swoop it gave them what really amounts to a pension to the
tune of from $100 to $300 per month, according to rank. But
the enlisted man, who bore the brunt of the war, has been
grossly discriminated against. These men gave their all in the
most perilous time of the country; and now, when broken in
health and down and out, they are entitled to every protection
by the Government they fought to defend. Why quibble about
dates? Whether they broke in health before 1925 or whether
it was 1926 or later, the Government owes the disabled soldiers
a debt it can only repay in a small way by providing for them
in their hour of need. I somehow feel that I speak the hearts
of the loyal citizens of our Nation when I urge that our dis-
abled veterans be given some relief at the earliest possible
monment. even though they may be unable to absolutely prove to
the satisfaction of the Veterans' Bureau that their disabilities
are of service origin.
Shortly after the close of the World War there appeared on
the front page of a European edition of an American news-
paper published in France for the American soldiers, sailors,
and marines a cartoon depicting a wounded American doughboy.
This American soldier was portrayed as leaning heavily for
support on crutches. One empty sleeve hung limp at his side.
The soldier's head was bandaged, and he wore large, darkened
eyeglasses, as if he had been blinded by that damnable poison
gas. Under that unusual war cartoon were these immortal
words:
For him the war has not ended.
To-day I am pleading for that multitude of disabled veterans
who are unable to help themselves and for whom," the war is
not over." I shall not speak further of this pitiful and heart-
sickening tragedy of human wrecks for whom the war did not
end November 11, 1918. It is enough to say that thousands of

1930

7265



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0450.txt

7266                           CONGRESSIONAL
such cases have been neglected and ignored for a dozen years.
Many of these human wrecks represent what were the finest
specimens of manhood the world has ever seen back in those
never to be forgotten days of 1917 and 1918.
But why consume more of your time in this manner? You
have hundreds of these unfortunate men in your districts. I
call your attention to the inevitable fact that Congress must act,
and act quickly, if many of these war victims are to participate
in any benefits at the hands of the Government. They did not
fail us back in those dark days when the black clouds of war
hung heavily over the land. We must not fail them     now!
[Applause.]
The CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentleman from Oklahoma
has again expired.
Mr. BANKHEAD. Will the Chairman advise the members
of the committee how much more general debate remains on
the )ill?
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from South Dakota has
2 hours and 11 minutes remaining; the gentleman from Mis-
sissippi has 3 hours and 19 minutes remaining.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr. Chairman, I move that
the committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly the committee rose; and the Speaker having re-
sumed the chair, Mr. MAPES, Chairman of the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union, reported that that com-
mittee, having had under consideratioi the bill H. R. 10381,
had come to no resolution thereon.
FURTIIER MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A further message from the Senate by Mr. Craven, its prin-
cipal clerk, announced that the Senate insists upon its amend-
ments to the bill (H. R. 4138) entitled "An act to amend the
act of March 2, 1929, entitled 'An act to enable the mothers and
widows of the deceased soldiers, sailors, and marines of the
American forces now interred in the cemeteries of Europe to
mnake a pilgrinage to these cemeteries,' " disagreed to by the
House, agrees to the conference asked by the House on the dis-
agreeing votes of the two Houses thereon, and appoints Mr.
BAIRD, Mr. SULLIVAN, and Mr. SHEPAmD to be the conferees
on the part of the Senate.
The message also announced that the Senate had passed
House Concurrent Resolution No. 29, providing for the printing
of 3,000 additional copies of House Document No. 328, Seventieth
Congress, first session, concerning the Battle of Kings Mountain
and the Battle of the Cowpens in South Carolina.
G. A. R. PENSIONS
Mr. STOBBS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
extend my remarks on the subject of G. A. R. pensions.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Massachusetts asks
unanimous consent to extend his remarks on the subject of
G. A. R. pensions. Is there objection?
There was no objection.
Mr. STOBBS. Mr. Speaker, at this time, when we are consid-
ering a measure providing additional relief for our World War
veterans, I want to say a word in behalf of certain legislation
now pending before the Committee on Invalid Pensions providing
additional relief for the veterans of our Civil War and their
widows.
The number of Civil War veterans now surviving is a little
less than 53,000, of an average age of 86 years. They are
passing away at the rate of about 12,000 a year. The actual
death rate for the month of March this year was 984, so that
within three or four years more in all probability only a few
will be with us.
The number of Civil War widows now living is a little over
150,000, of an average age of 75. They are also passing away
at a rapid rate-about 21,000 a year, with the actual death rate
for the month of March of 1,804.
If there is to be any additional relief furnished by this Gov-
ernment to these veterans and their widows, it must be passed
at this session in order to be of any practical benefit.
The proposed bill (H. R. 8765), which was introduced by me,
embodies the legislative program of the Grand Army of the
Republic and is sponsored and approved by that organization.
Briefly, it provides that every Civil War veteran who is now
receiving $05 a month shall receive $72, those now receiving
$72 a month shall receive $90 a month, and those now receiving
$90 a month shall be given $125 a month.
The bill further provides that any widow of a Civil War
veteran shall receive $50 a month, irrespective of her age, with
the proviso that it shall not apply to the widow of any veteran
whose marriage may take place subsequent to the date of ap-
proval of this bill, if enacted into law.
Under the present law only those widows whose marriage
took place prior to June 27, 1905, are eligible for a pension, and

RECORD-HOUSE

APRm 17

then only at the rate of $30 a month, unless by special act.
There are about 55,000 widows now receiving $30 a month and
about 98,000 receiving $40 a month as a result of the recent
amendment providing for this increase to widows 75 years of
age or over.
It is estimated that there would be about 5,000 additional
widows entitled to pension as a result of changing the date of
eligibility from June 27, 1905, to the date of the enactment of
this bill into law.
The additional expense involved, if this legislation were en-
acted, is estimated by the Commissioner of Pensions at approxi-
mately $38,000,000 annually, with a reduction on account of
•estimated death losses of about $3,400,000 a year, making the
net cost the initial year about $34,657,472.
Of the gross amount, the additional expense necessitated as
a result of increase in amounts provided for the veterans them-
selves would be about $9,827,112 annually, and the additional
expense necessitated as a result of the increase in amounts pro-
vided for those widows who were married prior to June 27, 1905,
would be about $25,230,360 annually. An approximate amount
of $3.400,000 would be added to this for those widows who
married since that date and are not now eligible for pension, but
who would become so if this bill were enacted into law.
Surely if we are to do anything more for these few surviving
Civil War veterans and their widows now is the psychological
time to act, before it is too late for any such additional financial
recognition to be of benefit.
No fair-minded person but must agree that this country has
been generous to its veterans and their dependents. It has every
reason to be, I think we will all agree, and gladly so.
Personally, I am in hearty accord with any plan which may be
evolved for handling the whole question of our obligation to
our veterans of all wars on a scientific basis, so that there may
be no question ever raised of discrimination'between veterans
of different wars in respect to their individual treatment. All
men who have fought for their country in any war and have
hazarded their health, their opportunity of earning a livelihood,
and their lives should be treated exactly alike. Until such a
plan may be worked out we can not be unmindful of our obli-
gation to these few remaining survivors of the war that was
fought to save the very existence of this country.
THE TRUTH ABOUT THE RURAL MA1IL SERVICE
Mr. MEAD. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to ex-
tend my remarks on the work of the rural mail carriers.
The SPEAKER.      The gentleman from    New   York  [Mr.
MEAD] asks unanimous consent to extend his remarks on the
work of the rural mail carriers. Is there objection?
There was no objection.
Mr. MEAD. Mr. Speaker, it appears that a great amount of
pressure Is being brought to bear in Congress against the in-
terests of the rural mail carriers. Many Members who are not
familiar with the duties of the rural carriers or the net salaries
which remain after they have paid the cost of maintaining
their equipment for carrying the mail, are led to believe that
they are overpaid.
A few rural carriers have been accused of making their trips
in two or three hours at certain times of the year, but no men-
tion is made of the hours spent in sorting and routing the mail
before they start on their trips, or the time required to take
care of their collections, or the time it takes to keep their
equipment in shape for the next trip. Critics say that many
rural carriers do not work eight hours per day, but they fail
to state that only a few carriers are receiving eight hours' pay,
and they are the ones with extra-long routes. By eight hours'
pay I mean the same wages as are paid to other postal em-
ployees. The rural carriers run a traveling post office and a
freight truck combined. They deliver and collect all classes of
mail-C. 0. D.'s, insured parcels, registers, money orders, and
parcels weighing up to 70 pounds.
The rural carrier is paid for the miles he travels and not the
hours he works or the mail he handles. The Government allows
him 4 cents per mile to pay the cost of maintaining his equip-
ment. He makes 291 trips each year and receives $11.64 for
each mile of his route. But this 4 cents pays only about half
the actual cost of his upkeep; he must take from his basic
salary at least $10 per year for each mile of his route to pay
that part of the cost of maintaining his equipment which the 4
cents per mile fails to cover. Most rural carriers find that it
costs them more than $10 a mile per year over the 4 cents allow-
ance, but I take this as the lowest possible estimate. The de7
partment has acknowledged that he should be allowed one hour
each day to take care of his equipment, whether it be motor or
horse drawn.
The rural carrier with the standard route of 24 miles receives
$1,800 per year. But he must spend $10 per year for each mile



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0451.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

of his route to pay that part of his upkeep which the 4 cents
per mile fails to cover. This amounts to $240.           Subtract this
from  his $1,800 and he has $1,560 as his net sala-ry. He is being
paid for only 5 hours and 56 minutes, including the hour allowed
for caring for his equipment. When we speak of the time re-
quired to serve the rural route, we mean the average the year
around, including the long days at Christmas and the auxiliary
help which he pays out of his own pocket.
Congress may be asked to consider a bill requiring the rural
carrier to do extra work in the post office after he has served
his route. In no case should this extra duty lengthen his day's
work beyond the time for which he draws pay. In other words,
if he has a 24-mile route he is being paid for working 5 hours
and 56 minutes each day, and the extra duty should not require
him to work longer.
For each mile added to the standard route of 24 miles the
rural carrier receives $30 per year, but he must use $10 of this
money to help maintain his equipment, leaving $20 per year to
add to his salary. So you see, in order for a rural carrier to
receive a net salary of $2,100 he must have a mail route 51 miles
long. Now, if there can be found a rural carrier serving a
51-mile route who does not work eight hours, or a carrier on a
shorter route who does not work all the time for which his
route pays him, then there would be no objection to giving him
extra work in the office to make up the time lacking, but those
on routes having extra heavy mail or very bad roads, who are
now working 8 or 10 hours per day, but receiving pay for only
5 or 6, should be paid for their overtime.
Below is a table showing the basic salary for routes ranging
from 24 to 51 miles long, the amount that must be deducted
from this basic salary to pay that part of the upkeep which the
4 cents per mile fails to cover, the net salary remaining, and
the extra time for which this net salary pays.
SExcess cost
Length of route in miles     Basic    Exe 4t Net salary,   Time
l       cent rate less upkeep  paid
Htrs. i.
24 ----------------------------------  $1,800  $240     $1,560     5 5d
25 ----------------------------------  1,830    250      1,580     6 00
26 -----------------------------------  1,860    260      1,600     6 05
27 ----------------------------------- 1,890     270      1,620     6 09
28 ----------------------------------- 1,920     280      1,640     6 13
29 -----------------------------------  1,950    290      1,660     6 18
30 -----------------------------------  1,980    300      1,680     6 23
31 -----------------------------------  2,010    310      1,700     6 28
32 ----------------------------------- 2,040     320      1,720     6 32
33 ----------------------------------  2,070    330      1,740     6 37
34 -----------------------------------  2,100    340      1,760     6 41
35 -----------------------------------  2,130    350      1,780     6 46
36 -----------------------------------  2,160    360      1,800     6 50
37 ----------------------------------- 2,190     370      1,820     6 55
38 ----------------------------------- 2,220     380      1,840     7 00
39 -----------------------------------  2,250    390      1,8C0     7 04
40 ----------------------------------  2,280    400      1,880     7 09
41 ----------------------------------  2,310    410      1,900     7 13
42 -----------------------------------  2,340    420      1,920     7 18
43 ----------------------------------  2,370    430      1,940     7 22
44 -----------------------------------  2,400    440      1,960     7 27
45 ----------------------------------  2,430    450      1,980     7 31
46 -----------------------------------  2,460    460      2,000     7 36
47 -----------------------------------  2,490    470      2,020     7 41
48 -----------------------------------  2,520    4S0      2,040     7 45
49 -----------------------------------  2,550    490      2,060     7 50
50 -----------------------------------  2,580    500      2,080     7 55
51 .--------------------- -------------  2,610   510      2,100     8 00
LAWSON-OWEN ELECTION CONTEST
Mr. BEEDY. Mr. Speaker, I have pending at the Speaker's
desk a request for absence from the House for one week owing
to death in my family.
For the benefit of the Members of the House I want to say
that had I been able I had intended to call up the Lawson-
Owen election case at the conclusion of the consideration of the
Johnson bill. Inasmuch as I shall be unable to do so, I can
only say that as soon as I return I shall make an endeavor to
call up the case for consideration by the House.
Mr. GARNER. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. BEEDY. I yield.
Mr. GARNER. Can the gentleman state about when he ex-
pects to call up that case?
Mr. BEEDY. Just as soon as I return from a funeral In my
family, of which I have just been notified; possibly in one
week.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of absence was granted as
follows :
To Mr. BEsoy, for one week, on account of death in his
family.
To Mr. CLARKE of New        York, for three days, on account of
important business.

To Mr. PARKER, for three days, on account of important
business.
THE LONDON NAVAL CONFERENCII
Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to ex-
tend my remarks by inserting in the RECORD an address of the
Secretary of State on the result of the London conference.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from New York asks unani-
