moment, making the supreme effort of his life to disfranchise all the voters
of the city of Asheville and to get a seat in Congress by methods as lawless
and desperate as those which are known of all men to prevail in the nonsuf-
frage States."
Governor Russell ridicules Mr. Pearson's Republicanism, and denounces
the attempt to make his contest a party matter.
"The truth is," added Governor Russell, "Pearson was fairly beaten by
Mr. Crawford. His real complaint is that he did not have votes enough.
There are other Republicans in the State who think as I do about it, among
them Colonel Lusk and Mr. Smathers. They say that Mr. Crawford ought
to want Mr. Pearson to be seated because it means a sweep for. Crawforl
next November. They think it worse than that. It means the loss to us of
many seats in the legislature.
"'What is the use of our making the great issue as to honesty in our elec-
tions if our own party should perpetrate such a fraud as this? Why, just
think of it. The whole city of Asheville is to be flung in the ditch because a
colored man was arrested for perjury committed during the contest, long
after the election. Why not throw out the whole vote of Buncombe County?"
In this wise Governor Russell reviews all the grounds on which Mr. Pear-
son bases his contest, and ridicules them with sarcasm, denouncing both the
law and the facts on which a seat is claimed.
Mr. MIERS of Indiana. Now, Mr. Speaker and gentlemen of
the House, I had that read so gentlemen on my right may know
what the Republican governor of North Carolina thinks of the
contestant's claim in this case. The Republican governor of
North Carolina says the contestant is trying to obtain a seat in
this House by methods that are very disreputable. If you will
not believe what I have said, and what I may say, I would like
you to give fair consideration to a portion of the record. And,
Mr. Speaker and gentlemen of the House, I will not take the time
to read, or have read, in addition, another interview with the gov-
ernor in the Raleigh Post, a two-column article, much longer than
the one in the Post just read, in which he goes into the details.
And I want to say to the gentleman from Massachusetts that
interview was a typewritten interview, well considered; and if
you Republican members on that side of the House would like to
see it,'I have several copies and will furnish it. In order that I
might not only be fair and know whether this was true or not,
this morning I telegraphed the governor to know whether or not
the interview contained in the Raleigh Post was authorized and
correct, and a little while ago I received a telegram, which I now
send to the Clerk's desk and ask to have read in my time.
Mr. LINNEY. Will the gentleman allow me a question now?
Mr. MIERS of Indiana. Yes.
Mr. LINNEY. I believe, if I caught you right, you say that
this case ought to be decided judicially?
Mr. MIERS of Indiana. Yes.
Mr. LINNEY. And with the same fairness and the same re-
spect to the law, and justice that you would before a court?
Mr. MIERS of Indiana. Yes.
Mr. LINNEY. Then I ask the gentleman from Indiana, as a
lawyer, whether or not he thinks this is proper evidence and is
right?
Mr. MIERS of Indiana. In response to the gentleman from
North Carolina, I will say that I do not know Governor Russell;
but if he is the man that history and reputation make him, I be-
lieve it to be right. He says the contestant has no right to the
seat, and he is on the ground and ought to know.
Mr. LINNEY. As a lawyer, do you believe that the statement
of any man not under oath, not before his adversary, with no
opportunity to cross-examine, ought to be thrown into the scale,
even where only the price of a mountain squirrel is at stake?
[Laughter.]
Mr. MIERS of Indiana. I am glad to see that interest is com-
ing in the gentleman from North Carolina; and when the gentle-
man's interest comes, I will get your attention to the record, my
brother, and I will make it so much stronger than is made in
either of these interviews that you and I will have no trouble, if
you will keep up your gait to the end of this discussion.
I Mr. LINNEY. I am not objecting to that; I want to get your
opinion as to the fairness of this proceeding.
Mr. MIERS of Indiana. I am glad the gentleman does not oh-

ject. I know it hurts, and I would not-do anything that would
offend the gentleman from North Carofina. Now, will the Clerk
read the telegram?
The Clerk read as follows:
RALEIGH, N. C., May 9, 1900.
To Hon. ROBERT W. MIERS, .Menber of Congress:
Report of interview in Raleigh Post and Charlotte Observer is authorizad
and correct.
DANIEL L. RUSSELL.
Mr. MIERS of Indiana. I thought the gentleman might make
an inquiry of me, and I am sure now that he knows that the in-
terview is genuine anq will have some weight with the gentleman,
coming as it does from the Republican governor.
I have stated this is a Democratic district. Let me follow
a little further. In 1898 and 1896 are the only times in the last
ten years that it has been carried by Republicans. It was carried
by the Fusionists in 1894, and that is all. Then we have a Demo-
cratic district. Let us see how we go into the Democratic dis-
trict, and then see how we come out of it: and I beg of the
gentleman from North Carolina, if we come out of it with a cer-
tificate of the officers of the State, signed by your good Republican
governor, then if it is supported by the evidence, let us not sear
our conscience by electing a man from the Ninth Congressional
district of North Carolina on the 9th day of May; 1900, almost a
year and a half beyond the election.
The contestee is popular with his party; has the enthusiastic and
united support of his political followers. The contestant is under-
taking to convince the House.that he carried the district under
these circumstances, and alleges certain things in support of his
contention. I will take them up one by one and try to deal With
them from the record fairly. -It any gentleman upon the other
side feels that I have misquoted the record or unfairly stated the
facts, I court his interruption. I will not take it as an interfer-
ence upon his part, but will gladly have any member give me an
opportunity to make plain any assertion that I make during this
argument. I am thoroughly convinced that this record makes a
clear title for the contestee, and am willing to fight it out before
the House and then ask the unbiased judgment of. the members..
Not only was there great objection to the contestant through-
out the district, as I will show a little further along, but here is
the Republican candidate for county sheriff; here is the Repub-
lican candidate for surveyor, and here, too, is the Republican gov-
ernor of the State repudiating this man, who has in the course of
his political career run on every ticket known to the law. They
repudiated him and worked against him and in favor of the con-
testee. Yet he comes here and, under the rules of the House, has
his case referred to a committee.
I want to refer to the fact that these men whom I have cited are
not the only Republicans against the contestant. The gentleinan
from New York [Mr. DRISCOLL] is a member of the Election Com-
mittee No. 8, who tried this case. He was also a member of the
subcommittee, which consisted of the gentleman from Massachu-
setts [Mr. ROBERTSL the gentleman from New York f Mr. DRIS-
COLL], and myself. ' The gentleman from New York, a Republican
member of this House and a member of the committee, entirdly
repudiates the claim of the contestant. His name is not signed to
the report of the majority. He will not say a word in favor of it;
he will not vote for it. I do not know whether he will vote against
it or not, but I do know what his convictions are.
Gentlemen, you have the governor of his State against the con-
testant; you have the electors; you have the county officers; you
have one member out of the six Republican members of the Com-
mittee on Elections who refuses to say on his oath that this man is
elected. And yet the gentleman from Massachusetts comes on the
floor of this House and objects to the minority of the committee
having four hours' discussion. He occupies two hours himself,
and yet says there is nothing in the record. He talked to us
about undue haste or about an unfair report. He ought to take
the time to do what he undertook to do-to show that it is a false
report. I beg of you, gentlemen of the House, to tell me where
and how he has shown anywhere along the line of his argument
that the contestee was not elected
Here you have a Republican district-Republicans fighting
among themselves., No, I ought not to say that-Republicans
fighting the contestant. The majority of this committee are seek-
ing to convince you that the contestant carried this Congressional
election. Now, I am going to take the record and see what the facts
are. You will remember that the gent.eman from Massachusetts
undertook to charge that there was bribery shown in this record.
I want to say, Mr. Speaker-and I measure my words; I measure
them in the presence of gentlemen who are able and conscien-
tious-I want to say to you there is no proof of bribery against
the contestee.
I want your attention, then, for a moment longer, when I say

1900.

5339



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0528.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

to you that I will prove from the records, page by page, that in-
stead of the contestee being a briber, or he and his friends, I will
prove from that same record that the contestant was a briber and
that his party bribed and bought votes all during that election.
'Now, that is pretty broad. If that is not true, I ought not to look
you in the face andsayit. If itis not true, there ought to be some
gentlemen to confront me with the record. If that is true, then
you ought to confront me with your judgment.
Now, let us follow it along a little on the question as to whether
or not there was bribery. And I want to say to you there are
three or four cases that have been referred to where there is some
appearance of bribery as against the contestee, and I am going to
read it, too, so that you may know all the proof there is. I chal-
lenge the gentleman from Massachusetts [Mr. ROBERTS1 or any
other gentleman, if I do not refer to every witness who has testi-
fied on the subject of bribery, then I want you to call my atten-
tion to it. I say to the House I will refer in this argument to
every witness who testified to anything that looks like bribery on
the part of the contestant, and then I want to turn to the other
side of the picture for a little while.
First, I call attention to the testimony of C. C. Greenwood, on
page 103. And I want to say, gentlemen, this record shows that
there were 232 witnesses examined, all told, and there are only 6
who even speak of the question of bribery. I am going to call
your attention to it:
C. C. Greenwood, being duly sworn, says:
Q. What is your name and place of residence, and where did you voto at
last election?
A. My name is C. C. Greenwood; vote at Ivy, No. 1, Buncombe County.
Q. Please state whether you saw W. R. Manney, a Democrat, pay money
to a negro to vote the Democratic ticket.
A. Yes, sir; I saw Manney pay West Ray, a colored man, $3 to vote the
Democratic ticket.
Q. Did Ray vote the Democratic ticket?
A. No, sir; he did not.
That is what the gentleman from Massachusetts [Mr. ROBERTSl
read. That is the little speck of grain in the crib that he cackled
about so much.
Here is the man Greenwood who testifies that he saw a Demo-
crat pay a colored man $3 to get a vote and he did not get it.
Now, what are you going to do, gentlemen, because the colored
man outwitted the politician and got the $3? Are you going to
say, therefore, that the contestant was elected?
Are you going to throw aside all rules and say that because
there was some man down there willing to invest $3 for his
friend, that you will say, "Ah, there is bribery?" I will join you
gentlemen now. If there is bribery in the case against the con-
testee I will quit the case. More than that, if I do not show you
from this record that there is bribery on the part of the contest-
ant and his friends, the rank and file, 1 will quit the case. Let
us go a little further. I have said I would give you all the facts
there werB so that you may know whether I am fair or not.
I now read from the testimony of George Whittemore, on page 108:
George Whittemore, jr., being duly sworn, says:
Q. What is your name, and where did you vote at last election?
A. George Whittemore, jr., and voted at Ivy No. 1 at last election.
Q. State if you know of any Democrat paying, or offering to pay, men to
vote the Democratic ticket at the last election at Ivy.
A. I do. W. R. Manney bought some. Brandon Max was one who he
bought; Doe Whittemore another, and paid them $3 apiece.
That is the man I was talking about a minute ago. He bought
a fellow, he set the trap, the trap fell, and he did not get the vote.
So my friend from Massachusetts has rolled that as a sweet mor-
sel under his tongue. He has read it twice, and I am not surebut
he read this little three-dollar transaction four times. I will now
give you the next witness. This is on page 110-M. A. Rickman:
What do you know about the Democratic workers at Limestone using
money and whisky to get men to vote the Democratic ticket?
That is a good question. That plumps right up along the line,
and I imagine that there are some of you, my friends, on either
side here who know what an election is. If there is a man here
who will put his hand on his heart and say, "No money, no liquor,
no letters," then, as said by the gentleman over the way, he ought
to have little 'wings and go on to other regions and quit this body.
But I will put it the other way, gentlemen, and say that it is as
holy as the most holy sanctuary that can be found. Say that
bribery shall be confronted and stricken out of this Hall and I
will join you, and later I will show you a subject. But let us see
what the witness answers:
A. James Webb told me that they gave him $1.50; A W. Williams-we call
him Alex. Williams-said that they offered him $1.50 to vote the Democratic
ticket, and lie said that he wouldn't vote it, and a man named Frady, for
whom he was working, discharged him immediately after the election; Jake
Feilds told me that they nfferect him 81.50, and he told them that he thought
that they ought to give him S! or S1 to vote the whole Democratic ticket.
Jako also told me that they used hig kitchen on the day of election for the
purpose of paying off those men who voted the Democrat ticket.
Now, think a minute. These gentlemen come here to the great

American House of Representatives and ask you to set aside the
certificate of the officers of the State on what kind of testimony?
Naming three men who told somebody else that somebody else
had offered them money. If Mr. Williams said to Jones, "Major
offered me $3 to support the Democratic ticket," what would you
do as a lawyer? I leave it to any lawyer on the floor of this
House. I do not care whether he be a Democrat or a Republican.
I do not care whether he be white or black. I do not care whether
lie be from North Carolina or South Carolina.
He would have told that witness to stop, and he would have
sent for A. W. Williams and put him on the stand and said:
"Hold up your hand and be sworn. Did you receive a bribe?
Did anybody offer you any money?" And let him say yes or no.
Is there any gentleman here who has any respect for courts of
justice or the admission of testimony who for a minute would say
he would take a seat from the contestee on such testimony as that
which I have read? I would like to look him in the face and see
the color of his eye. There is one other witness, Paton Durham:
Paton Durham, being duly sworn, says:
Q. What is your name ana where did you vote at the last election?
A. My name is Paton Durham, and I voted at Limestone at last election.
Q. Did any of the Democratic workers offer you any inducement to vote
the Democratic ticket at the last election? If so what,
A. They promised me if I would vote the Republican ticket they would
give me a steady job.
Q. Did you vote the whole Democratic ticket?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. Have you got the promised steady job?
A. I have got the job.
Q. How would you have voted had you not got the promise of that job?
(Contestee objects because it simply asks for the statement of an opinion
of what might have been done, and does not call for a statement of a fact or
-facts.)
A. I would have voted for Mr. Pearson, but on account of being out of a
job I voted the other way to get work so that 1 could support my family.
Now you have one. Here is a man who did vote the Demo-
cratic ticket. Let us see under what circumstances:
Q. Did you vote the whole ticket?
A. Yes, sir.
Did you get the job?
A.Yes, sir.
Q. Whom are you living with now?
A. With a man named Durham.
He is living with the man Durham who promised him the job.
Are you going to take the seat from the contestee and give it to
the contestant because some man down in North Carolina saw a
good old colored man whom he wanted around his house and barn,
to whom he said: "You vote for your friends and my friends and
I will give you a job," and he did give it to him.
Perhaps, gentlemen, he ought not to have said that, but if you
do not find more than that, do you wonder that we grew indignant
when we said in our views that the gentlemen who signed the
majority report were entirely without the record? And I will say
to you that they are further from the law than from the facts.
Let us follow the record a little further and go to the next testi-
mony, found on page 159 of the record, given by T. B. Ray, who
testified:
T. B. RAY, being first duly sworn, deposes and says:
Q.State your name, place of residence, and what official position you held
at the last election.
A. My name is T. B. Ray; I live in Buck Creek precinct; I was a judge of
the election last November.
Q. Please state whether a man by the name of Flynn voted at Buck Creek,
and what happened in regard to his vote.
(Contestee objects to the question for the reason that there is no reference
in the notice of contest to this matter.)
A. Yes; William Flynn voted. After he had voted he came around to me
and said that he wanted to know what it would take to get his tickets out. I
told him that we could not take them out at all; that he could see the rest of
the boys and see what they would say. I taken him up to the door and
called the attention of the other judges, and told them what he asked. He
said it was an empty shoot, the Democrats had promised to pay him and
failed to do it.
This is only hearsay. If Flynn had been promised anything,
why did not the contestant produce him as a witness, instead of
bringing in hearsay evidence that would not be admitted in any
court?
This comprises all the evidence given tending to show bribery
on the part of the Democrats, except one witness who testifies that
a portion of $10 was divided among 9 men in a precinct where
contestee received only 6 votes. This, too, after a careful research.
I submit instead of its showing bribery it shows what the actual
condition of the Democratic campaign fund was in that district
as well as all over the United States. Without money and no
bribery. Let us turn for a little to the other side of the picture.
See what the condition of the campaign fund was on the other
side and see what contestee's attitude is. I can assure you that
contestant's position is not like that of a bankrupt candidate, but
the record shows that-he and his party were the bribe givers. On
pages 98 and 99 of the record, C. B. Moore testifies:
Q. Mr. Moore, do you not know that money was sent out from Republican
headquarters in Asheville to prominent Republicans at the various voting
places in the county to be used for campaign purposes?

5340

MAY 9,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0529.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

A. 1 think some small amounts were sent out.
Q. I ask you if the amounts that were sent out were not in the denomina-
tions of $t and 2 bills?
A. I think that the committee had such denominations.
Q. What place did you occupy in the last campaign for the Republican
party?
A. I was a member and'secretary of the Republican Congressional com-
mittee.
Q. Please state. as nearly as you are able to, the number of $1 bills and $2
bills sent out to this Congressional district by you, as secretary of the Con-
gressional committee, for campaign purposes.
A. None.
Q. I ask you if you did not have, on several occasions, in your possession,
as secretary of that committee, several hundred $1 bills?
A. I never at any one time had more than $450 in $1 and $2 bills belonging
to the Republican Congressional executive committee.
Q. Did you have any such denomination of money in your possession dur-
ing the campaign for any other committee than the Congressional committee,
or for any other person, for campaign purposes?
A. I acted as treasurer of the county campaign fund, and as such treasurer
was furnished by that committee with $1 and $2 bills aggregating some $6C
or 8800.
Q. Were not such bills furnished you just shortly before the day of elec-
tion?
A. Some time prior to the election; I have no positive recollection as to
the date. ,
Q. What did you do with these bills?
A. I paid them out upon the various written orders of the committee.
Q. I understood you to say that you never had more than $450 in $1 and $2
bills in your possession at any one time as secretary of the Congressional
committee. Did you have such denominations of bills more than once? If
so, how often?
A. Not more than once.
Q. Who furnished you those bills?
A. I think that I got the greater part of them, if not all, from the Battery
Park Bank.
Q. Who contributed those bills that you got the money for, or any check
or other thing which enabled you to get those bills at the Battery Park
Bank?
A. I contributed in part; Mr. Harkins contributed some-H. S. Harkins I
mean-Mr. Pearson contributed some.
Q. Do you know why $1 and $2 bills were especially desirable and the only
money used for campaign purposes?
A. Ido. We had a working committee on the day of the election, com-
posed of Republicans, who were to receive for the day's work at the polls $2
each, and deemed it well to be prepared to pay that committee off soon after
the election, and so provided myself with the proper change.
Q. Did you have those working committees at other places than at Ashe-
ville?
A. If so, they were not under my control as to payment.
Q. Are you able to state what amount in $1 and $2 bills you had in your
possession when the polls closed on Tuesday evening, the day of the election?
A. I think some $450.
Q. The working committee did not apply for any money till after the polls
closed?
A. No, sir.
Q. Mr. Moore, do you state that you paid out that $450 after the polls
closed to members of the Republican working committee at $2 per day, and
that you had paid out none of it before, and that none of it previous to that
time had left your possession?
A. Ido.
Q. Did you keep any account of the amounts paid out, and to the persons
to whom paid, and the date of payment?
A. On the second night after the election I met with the committee that
had that matter in charge, who had a list of the committee and who called
the list, and as called I handed him $2.
Q. How many names were on that list?
A. There were enough to exhaust the money.
Q. You did not preserve the list?
A. No5 I never did have the list.
Q. Then I understand you to say that none of the money that came into
your possession as secretary of the Congressional committee ever left your
possession till after the close of the polls?
A. No, sir; I did not state that. I had sufficient money, according to my
recollection, to supply each county with something like $80 each.
Q. Please state how much money passed through your hands as secretary
Congressional committee, for campaign purposes, or for any purposes relat-
ing to the election on the 8th of November last.
A. I think some twelve or fifteen hundred dollars.
Q. If you were getting small bills to pay campaign workers $2 a day, why
was it important for you to get one-dollar bills?
A. The money that I handled for that purpose consisted of one-dollar and
two-dollar bills, and I took such change as was convenient to those furnish-
ing same.
Yet the contestant, with this one witness having $1,200 or $1,500,
$450 at one time in one-dollar and two-dollar bills, has the effront-
ery to charge the contestee with bribery, and the majority of the
committee, presumed to investigate and report the facts, falls into
his contention and ignores the wholesale bribery on the part of
the contestant. I submit the report of the majority is a strong
partisan document, but as a judicial examination will not rank
very high.
Having thus disposed of the question of bribery, let us take up
contestant's next contention, that of violence, and in so doing I
ask the careful consideration of this House. This contention has
less foundation and is more audacious than the charge of bribery.
There is absolutely no mob violence. There was one row on elec-
tion day between two Democrats.
There was a colored man mobbed the night before the election,
which had no connection with the election whatever. He had
made an assault on two white women. The community rose en
masse, without regard to politics, Democrats, Republicans, and
Populists participating. I will give you from the record the tes-
timony on this subject and challenge your judgment and not your
partisanship.

Dr. J. F. Wolff, chairman of the Republican executive commit-
tee of Jackson County, a member of the senatorial committee, and
also a member of the Congressional committee and witness for
contestant (page 64):
Q. Was not the campaign in the Ninth Congressional district and also the
election following in 1898 a quiet, peaceable, and orderly one throughout the
entire district, as much so as you have ever observed in preceding campaigns?
A. I don't think that there is any question about that, as far as I know.
James R. Love, chairman of the Populist executive committee
of Jackson County, witness for contestant, and his ardent political
supporter (page 61):
Q. I ask you if the campaign and election in 1898 in this county were not
quiet, peaceable, and orderly?
A. So far as I know, it was.
G. M. Roberts, ex-chairman of the Republican executive com-
mittee of the district, says (page 235) in regard to Asheville:
Q. Please state how the election in last November, in respect of the or-
derly conduct of the voters and the peace and quiet of the day, compared
with previous elections for the last thirty years.
A. A very quiet election in the city; as much so as I have ever seen.
A. J. Hall says (page 105):
Q. What official position do you now occupy in Swain County?
A. I am clerk of the superior court.
Q. when were you elected and when were you inducted into office?
A. I was elected November 8, 1898; inducted into office December 5,1898.
Q. To what political party do you belong?
A. To the Republican party.
Q. When you were a candidate for office of clerk of the superior court did
you visit during the campaign of 1898 the various sections of Swain County?
A. Yes, sir; I visited all of the precincts.
Q. What was the character of the campaign in Swain County in reference
to the order and friendly spirit among the people?
A. It was very good.
Q. What was the character of the elections throughout the county in 1898?
A. As to my own precinct, Crisp, it was very quiet; quietest I have seen
since I have been in the county, and so far as I have learned in the rest of the
county elections were very quiet.
T. F. Davidson, ex-attorney-general of North Carolina, says
(page 285):
The canvass was very vigorous on both sides, and I suppose as much po-
litical work was done by each political organization as was ever done in the
State. The election itself, as far as came under my observation, was remark-
ably orderly, and I think I have heard fewer complaints of unfairness than
in any other instance within my recollection.
F. A. Luck, newspaper correspondent, says (page 229):
Q. State opportunities, if any, you had of becoming acquainted with the
political conditions as they existed in the Ninth Congressional district in
1898.
A. In the early part of 1898 1 was connected with the Waynesville Courier.
and the balance of the year, up to the time of the election, I was a special
correspondent for the Asheville Citizen.
Q. As such special correspondent, did you visit the various counties com-
posing the Ninth Congressional district, preceding the electionin November,
1898?
A. Yes; I visited all the counties in the district, except one, once; some of
them more than once. I attended superior courts in Jackson, Swain, Macon,
and Cherokee. Then I accompanied Mr. Crawford in his preliminary cam-
paign in all the western counties.
Q. Did you accompany Mr. Crawford as a candidate for Congress in the
joint discussion with Mr. Pearson?
A. I was with them at every appointment in the district except two.
0. Please state the general character of the discussions between Mr. Craw-
ford and Mr. Pearson during their campaign, and the general state of feeling
between the political parties as:this campaign progressed.
A. Everything was pleasant and agreeable, and there was no political dis-
turbance anywhere.
This effectually disposes of the claim  of general intimidation.
Let us now read from the record and see what there is of political
significance in mobbing the negro Mosley. Mr. S. J. May testifies
as follows (see page 52 of the record):
Q. Where were you on the day of election?
A. 1 was at the Briartown voting place.
Q. How far is that from Franklin, the county seat?
A. Said to be 21 miles.
Q. Did the news of the lynching affair reach that part of the county on
election day?
A. Yes, sir-not the lynching, but the crime.
Q. When did the news of the lynching reach there?
A The news was there when I got there, before the opening of the polls-
I mean the news of the crime; it was not believed in the morning from the
first report; the fact that it was a Democrat that was circulating the news,
we thought it was just done for political purposes at that time.
And on page 53 says:
Q. Can you name any man who would have otherwise voted the Repub-
lican ticket in the Congressional race, but who was deterred from so doing
in consequence of this affair?
A. I don't think that there was at our precinct; in fact, we thought it was
all just a yarn till in the evening.
W. R. Stallcup testified as follows (page 268):
Examination by contestee:
Q. Please state your name, where you reside, and in what precinct did you
vote in last election, and what official position, if any, did you hold at said
election.
A. I live in Franklin, this (Macon) county; voted at No. 2 precinct; I was
registrar of election-one of them.

1900.

5341



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0530.txt

- CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

Q. Were you at home just before last election?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. Do you know that there was a negro by name of Mosley lynched in
Franklin? if so, when?
A. Yes: there was a negro of that name -lynched on Monday night'bfore
the last election.
Q. Do you know what crime or crimes this negro Mosley was alleged to
havecoummitted? If so, state what information or knowledge you may have
in regard to the same.
A. Yes sir: be was alleged of attempting to commit the crime of rape on
two ladies. One was the wife of a Republican and the other the wife of a
Democrat, as I understood. Well, I got to the house where the first assault
was made: in fact, I was the first man there, this lady told me.
(Contestant objects to the question or to the introduction of hearsay tes-
timony.)
Q. State about what time this alleged assault was made.
A. About 8 o'clock on Sunday night.
Q. How soon after this time until you bad a conversation with the lady
upon whom this first assault was committed?
. A. Do not think it could have been over two minutes. I was first attrqcted
by the firing of a pistol at Mrs. Monday's; they live about 40 or 50 feet from
me; she told me it was Mitch Mosley or his brother, she did not know which,
but that she thought it was Mitch; I sent a negro boy after John Trotter to
stay with the lady until I could run after Mr. Ashe, the marshal; I started
after the marshal. I met Mr. Jones's son and got him to go af ter the marshal.
I stayed with that lady until after the negro was arrested.  .
(Contestant objects to the repetition of a conversation had with a third
party, and protests that neither the notice of contest nor the answer of con-
testee raises any issue which makes it necessary to expose the details of the
alleged assault or the names of the parties against whom the assault is alleged
to have been made.)
This lady said that the first that she knew the negro came to the door of
her room; was in the room when she saw him, and that she asked him what
he wanted; that he made no answer, but went around the foot of the bed and
blew out the light; that she had retired and was in bed. She said she sprung
out of the bed and took hold of him and pushed him out of the room. When
she got him to the door she got her pistol and fired at him three or four times.
I still stayed there until the negro was arrested and brought in the room.
Q. State what knowledge or information you may have in regard to the
second assault made by this negro Mosley.
A. The first personal knowledge Ihad waswhen the negro was taken before
the lady. She said it was the very same man that was in her room a few
minutes before.
Q. Who was the negro she identified as having been in her room?
A. Mitch Mosley.
Q. Did you hear this lady, upon whom the second assault was committed,
make any statements in regard to the same? If so, what were the statements
made by her?
(Contestant objects and protests on the ground that the testimony of wit-
ness is not the best evidence, and that no testimony on this particular sub-
ject is material to any issue in this contest.)
A. Yes. sir; I heard her make a statement. She said the man came to the
door and knocked, and wanted to get in to pay the preacher 50 cents he owed
him. She told him he could not come in unless her husband was there. He
then kicked the hall door open; then kicked her room door open; kicked the
clasp off the facing. While he was kicking the door down she got her pistol.
She could not work the pistol-did not know how; he grabbed her. Her fin-
gers were fastened in the guard of the pistol and she could not let it loose.
e drug her out into the hallway before he got the pistol from her. In get-
ting the pistol from her he tore her fingers considerably. I saw her hand.
Her arm and hand was bloody when I saw her.
Q. Do you know the calling of this lady's husband, and where he was at
the time of this occurrence?
A. Yes, sir; he was a minister, and was at the church holding services.
sau.tWas there anyone at the house of this minister at the time of the as-
sal except his wife?
A. I think not, except three or four small children.
Q. Did you see one of his little daughters at the time this negro was
brought for identification; and if so, did you hear her make any statement;
what was her age1 and what did she say?
i(Contestant objects on the ground that the testimony is entirely hearsay
and has no bearing whatever upon any allegation either In the notice of con-
testant or in the answer of contestee)
A. I took the little girl, from her'appearance, to be 8 or 9 years old. Mr.
Ashe asked her if that was the man that broke into her mother's room; she
said yes, it was the same man.
Q. Had quite a number of the citizens of Franklin gathered at the resi-
dence of this minister, at this time, when this identification was made, and
did you notice among them both Democrats and Republicans?
A. There was 18 or 20; there were both Democrats and Republicans.
Q. Did all of these people who were there hear the statements made both
by this lady and her little daughter?
(Contestant objects to the testimony and question on the ground that it is
purely hearsay and incompetent before any tribunal.)
A. Yes; all that were in the room heard it, and I think they were most all
in the room.
Q. About how long was it from the time the first assault was made until
these statements were made that you speak of by this lady and her daughter?
A. I don't think it could have been over twenty minutes.
Q. On the following day did you observe on the streets of Franklin a num-
ber of men gathered together in different groups; and if so, did you observe
that In these groups there were both Democrats and Republicans?
A. Yes; there were Democrats, Republicans, and Populists.
Q. State what you know about the lynching of this negro on Monday night.
A. I know but very little about it, except there was a wonderful crowd; I
think there were at least 300, judging from the size of the crowd.
Q. Did you hear any objections made to the proposed lynching by anyone;
an if so, who was it and what was their politics?
A. I heard a good many men object to the lynching, but can not remember
any names except George Jones, who is a Democrat.  '
Q. State what you know in regard to'the disposition made of the body of
this negro, and about what time was it taken to the undertaker's shop in
Franklin, and how soon after was it removed for burial?
A. It was quite early in the morning when it was brought up; it was taken
from the wagon and placed in the coffin at once, and they had to wait a few
minutes for the lid to be completed; then it was put in wagon and taken off.
Q. Do you know whether the body was removed from the wagon imme-
diately upon its arrival at the undertaker's shop?
A: It was, in a very tow minutes.
Q. About how long, in all, did the body remain at the undertaker's shop
after its arrival before it was removed for burial?
A. I don't think it was there as long as one hour.
u. Was the route traveled in bringing.the body from the bridge to the
andertaker's shop the direct route from the one place to the other?

A. Yes, sir.
Q. Was this body removed from the undertaker's shop before the polls
were opened or not, or had it arrived at the undertaker's shop before the
opening of the polls?
A. It had arrived and was gone before the polls were opened.
Q. Was there any public exhibition made of thebddy in any manner?
A. None whatever; the body was covered up with a quilt; I think two or
three darky women observed the body.
Q. Do you know whether or not after the lynching the body was taken
charge of by the coroner of the county?
A. Yes, sir; it was.
Q. How long have you resided in Franklin?
A. I have been in Franklin all my life; I am 48 years of age.
Q. Do you know of any Republican voting at either of the precincts in
Franklin who was deterred from voting or from going to the polls in the last
election in consequence of this lynching?
A. No, sir; not one.
Q. What was the character of the election in these two precincts last year
in respect to the order that was observed?
A. Perfectly quiet and orderly; no demonstration whatever of disquietude.
Q. Did you hear this lynching affair mentioned during the day of the elec-
tion in any way in connection with politics prejudicial to the Republican
party?
A. None whatever; I think it was entirely nonpolitical.
George A. Jones testified as follows (page 270):
Q. Please state your name, where you reside, in what precinct in which
you voted in last election, and what office, if any, you have held in the
Twelfth judicial district in North Carolina.
A. George A. Jones; I live at Franklin; voted at last election in No. 1,
Franklin Township; at the time of the last election I was solicitor of the
Twelfth judicial district of North Carolina.
Q. Were you in Franklin at the time the negro Mosley was lynched? And
if so, please state the circumstances connected with it.
A. was at Franklin; I was present the night he was lynched; was present
when he was taken out of the jail, and was present when he was hung; I got
tothe jail about dark, the crowd was then gathering; myself and a few others
succeeded in keeping the m'ob out of jail until about 8 or 9 o'clock; I gave out,
was sick; they broke the jail open and took him and hung him; there was 100 to
400 men present; Democrats, Republicans, and Populists were present; part
of the Democrats and part of the Republicans were clamorous to have the
negro lynched; some of the Democrats threw the rope up on the bridge to a
Republican, who caught the rope. pulled it over; they led the horse from un-
der the negro, or be may have falien off before the horse was led away.
Q. Was this incident used in any way in connection with politics, and did
it in any way affect the Republican party in Franklin Township?
A. I can not state how it was used by other people; I am very confident
that it had very little if any effect on the election i this township.
Q. Were you about the polls pretty much all day?
A. Was there about half the day.
h. Did you observe the character of the election; and if so, was it quiet and
orderly, and was there any appearance of commotion or excitement among
the voters?
A. 1 thiuk everything was very quiet; I saw no commotion and heard of
none.
Q. Do you know of any elector in your precinct who was deterred either
from voting or from going to the pols in consequence of this lynching?
A. I do not; don't think there was anyone deterred; don't think l ever saw
a more quiet election at Franklin.
Q. How long bave you lived here?
A. About twenty-five years.
W. B. McGuiro testified as follows (page 278):
Examination by CONTESTEE:
Q. What is your name, occupation, and wvhere do yen reside?
A.W. B3. MeGnire; l am a mechanic and an undertaker; I reside in Frank-
lin, Macon County, N . C.
Q. State if you received any information from thn coroner of Maon
County on the morning of the election of 189?. If so, at what hour?
A. Idid receive some about daylight.
Q. In consequence of this information what did you do?
A. I come to town as soon as I could.
Q. Upon arriving in town state what you saw and what was done by you
immediately thereafter.
A. I saw a wagon coming to town with the body of a negro in it; they
brought the negro to my shop; I took him out and put him in my shop.
Q. Was the body removed from the wagon immediately on its arrival at
your establishment, and was it covered ?
A. Yes, sir; it was taken out just as soon as it got there, and the body was
covered.
Q. Did you make this box after the body arrived, or did you have one
already on hand?
A. I had one on hand, with the exception of a few minutes' work.
Q. How long did the body remain in your shop before its removal for
burial?
A. A short time; not more than an hour, if that long.
ta Can you fix the time at about which the body was brought to your es-
Q    cqis meat?
A. I can not fix the time exactly; it was between   and 5 o'clock.
Q. Was the body on exhibition at any time while it was in your place of
business?
A. It was not on exhibition; it was uncovered while we had to do some
work.
Q. Did you recognize it as the body of the negro, Moseley, who had been
lynched on the preceding night?
A. I did.
b   Were you In Franklin on th   th g t ahe lynching occurred?
A.Iwas in town a while after dark.
Q.Do you know anything in regard to the time of the removal of the body
to ue nertaker's establishment and its burial?
A. It was early, before 8 o'clock. for Icame down and voted and left town
by 8; they were placing the body in the wagon to take it out for burial as
came in.
AQ. How long did you remain at precinct No0. 1 during the day?
A. Just long enough to vole in the morning; returned a little before sun-
doA. and left town in a few minutes.
q. Please state whether or not, in your opinion, tboe lynchingof this nego
in any way affected thn results nit the election in precinct N o. 1.
A. I think it did, slightly; negroes who before had voted with the Demo-
cratic party partly that day voted solidly with the Republican party. I don't
think the white vote was ffectedat all.
Q. How long have you resided in Macon County and what position or psea-
I tions have you held in the county?

5342

. MAY 9,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0531.txt

,CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

A. Practically all of my life; I am 38 years of age; was county physician
several years; was elected representative in 1896.
Q. Do you know the general character of W. IR. Stallcup, George A. Jones,
W. B. MeGuire, J. L. Barnard, and N. P. Rankin. witnesses heretofore ex-
amined in this case; and if so, what is their characters?
A. The character ofutll of them is good; there are no better men.
J. F. Ray testified as follows (page 276):
Examination by CONTESTEE:
Q. State your name, where you reside, and where you voted in the last
election.
A. My name is J. F. Ray; I live in Franklin, Macon County, and voted in
district No. 1.
Q. How many times have you represented the county of Macon in the gen-
eral assembly of North Carolina?
A. I have represented the county in the house six times, and of the Thirty-
fifth senatorial district, of which aistrict Macon County forms a part, one
time.
Q. Were you in Franklin on the night that the lynching of Mosley occurred?
A. I was.
Q. State the character of the crowd that assembled at the jail that night,
with respect to the politics of those present.
A. There were Republicans and Democrats, and members of all political
parties; I saw prominent Republicans-leading Republicans in the crowd.
Q. Do you know of any Republicans who opposed the lynching?
A. I do not.
Q. Were there any Democrats present who opposed it?
A. Yes; there were several Democrats who tried very hard to prevent it.
Q. Didyou not oppose this lynching?
A. I did; I tried every way to prevent it, and came very near getting into
a difficulty with a prominent, leading Republican in the county; he said it
should be done; he said the negro should be lynched that night.
Q. In the crowd that went from the jail with this negro to the bridge where
he was hanged were there not members of all political parties?
A. There were.
Q. How long were you at the polls at your precinct on election day?
A. About all day.
Q. Do you know of any colored man who expressed to you a willingness to
take part in this lynching?
A. I do. I heard a prominent colored man, who has always been a Repub-
lican, express a desire the day before to head a crowd to lynch the negro.
He was a leader, so far as intelligence and honesty goes, of the colored people
in the county.
Q. Did you not notice on election day In your precinct both Democrats and
Republicans whom you had observed the night before in this crowd, inter-
mingling around the polls, apparently unagitated on account of this affair?
A. I did; I saw no excitement or agitation of any kind next day.
Q. Was the election the next day in your precinct a quiet and orderly one?
A. It was in every respect a very quiet and orderly election.
Senator PRITCHARD, on page 139, says:
Of course I can not undertake to say that it affected the Republican party
In my county, from the fact that Madison is situated quite a distance from
there, a:d I doubt if many of the voters residing in that section were aware
of the fact on the day of the election. However, I am inclined to the opinion
that the voters residin g in the adjacent counties were more or less influenced
by the reports which I understand were scattered broadcast by the Demo-
cratic newspapers.
That the vote in Macon County or adjacent counties was not
affected by the lynching will appear from the official returns.
Maco County. (Pages 280, 281.)
1890.                              1898.
Adams, Democrat ............ 1,1-9   Crawford, Democrat ........... 1,068
Pearson, Republican ............  894 Pearson, Republican ...........  946
Democratic majority ----  235     Democratic majority ......  120
Franklin precincts (Macon County).
1896.
No. 1. Adams, Democrat ...................................... : .............. 160
Pearson, Republican  .................................................  41
No. 2. Adams, Democrat ............................................ ---------183
Pearson, Republican  .................................................  92
1898.
No. 1. Crawford  .............................................................. 165
Pearson  ................................................................  42
No. 2. Crawford ..........................................--------------- 180
Pearson  ................................................................  92
Number registered colored voters in Franklin precinct No. 1 ----------- 29
Number who voted -------------------------------................... 29
Number registered colored voters in Franklin precinct No. 2 ............. 29
Number who voted ---------------------------------------------------- 26
Jackson County. (Pages 258, 259.)
1896.                               1898.
Adams, Democrat ------------- 1,094, Crawford. Democrat ........... 1,166
Pearson, Republican ---------- -909 Pearson, Republican. --_.------  979
Democratic majority .....  185 1 -  Democratic majority -----  187
Siain County. (Page 197.)
1886.                               1898.
Adams, Democrat .............810    Crawford, Democrat ............  734
Pearson, Republican- .------  5 43  Pearson, Republican ............  686
Democratic majority.-   207       Democratic majority .....  48
I would gladly quit now and let you take the report of the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts [Mr. ROBERTS], and with it the views
of the minority, and if you would read, then I would gladly sub-
mit this case. I say to you, gentlemen, that I am very much in
earnest about this case. I mean what I say. I believe the con-
testee is entitled to his seat; and I beg of you as conscientious Rep-
resentatives to take the views of the minority and to take the re-
port of the majority and read them before you vote to-morrow.
Take the record with you and read it, and say after doing so where
your vote ought to be cast to-morrow.

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has
expired.
Mr. MIERS of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I ask that I.may be per-
mitted to proceed to a conclusion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Indiana asks
that he may conclude his remarks. Is there objection? [After a
pause.] The Chair hears none.
Mr. MIERS of Indiana. Because there was an ill-tempered
speech delivered 500 miles away from this district; because it was
read to some one after the election, without any statement that
anybody in this district was influenced by the speech-indeed,
we know no one could have been influenced-it is not enough to
say that somebody may have known of this speech and.may have
been influenced by it. You have no right to say that. If you
charge that anybody was influenced, it is your bounden duty to
prove it. I say to you as a Representative on this floor that no
witness has testified that he heard or read the speech before the
election, yet they come here and charge general intimidation.
I saw a few moments ago a map out in the lobby showing a
great black line, as long as half across this room, to indicate some-
thing. What if there is a black belt down there? If there is no
proof that anybody has been deceived or bribed or browbeaten
or made the subject of any violence, what are you going to do
about it? Are you going to say, "The district is Republican; thp
Democrats are in the minority; and we in this House will throw
out the man who had courage and Americanism enough in his
veins in the Fifty-second Congress to lay aside politics and vote
for a man he thought was elected."
We next come to the city of Asheville, with nine precincts, which
cast a vote of 2,567. The report of the majority seeks to throw
out the vote of the entire city and thus disfranchise 2,567 voters.
For what? Because a witDes-W. J. Harrison-was arrested.
This witness was arrested three months after the election and on
the occasion of taking the testimony of this contest, after he had
testified as a witness, in which testimony he had plainly commit-
ted perjury by charging the council conducting the examination
for contestee with. an offer to bribe. Let me call your attention,
first, to the testimony as given by this man Harrison. (See the
record, page 123.)
W. J. Harrison, being duly sworn, says (page 123):
Q. What is your name, and where did you vote at the last election?
A. W. J. Harrison, and I voted in the second precinct at Asheville.
Q. State whether any money was paid or offered to you, or to any other
Republican voter, within your knowledge, by any Democrats to vote the
Democratic ticket at the last election. It so, state all the circumstances.
A. Was none paid to me? There was. money offered to me to vote the
Democratic ticket. I was on Patton avenue, in Asheville. Mr. Craig-Mr.
Locke Craig-a Democratic candidate for the legislature, called me to him
and asked me if I would vote with him. I told him that Idid not know; that
I didn't see no way that I could vote for him, and heard him speak, saying
that he would fix the negroes so when he got to Raleigh that he would not
give him any more trouble; and he says to me, that was only lies that the
Republican party had talked into us colored people for a election scheme. I
told him that I would see him again.
I never seen him any more till three or four days before the election, and
he called me to his room, and I went, and he told me that he would give me a
good deal of money to vote as many colored people as I could. I asked him
ow much would lie give me, and he asked me how many could I think that
I could vote. I told him that I did not know; that the most of the colored
people had heard his speech; theii he walked out and brought in Mr. Murphy,
and he talked with me. He asked me how many could I vote for them this
election, and I asked him what was in it. He says that lie would insure me
that I would get pay for my trouble. I told him that that did not suit me; I
wanted to know bow much le was going to give me. He says, "That hewould
see that I got $70 to put in 25 votes." 1 told him that I would see him again.
Then, on Sunday, I was going down Patton avenue and Mr. Craig called
me in his office and there I met Mr. Murphy again, and he says to me, "I be-
lieve that you are trying to seek a flaw in us." I says, "If you think that,
let me walk the streets and don't call me." Mr. Craig says, 'He is all right,"
and Mr. Murphy says. "if you fool about and get into our secrets and give
us away, I'll be damn if I don't kill you." I says, "Let the hair go with the
hide." and I walked out. Then I never seen Mr. Murphy, at least no other
conversation with him any more, till after the election, and he asked me one
day did I have a family here; I told him I did. He says, "Richmond is going
to test the election, and if you will leave here I will help pay your way, but
if you stay here and testify against us, you may look out." I says, "You
have threatened me enough; I will tell it if I die." I left him then.
Q. Please state what official position in the Democratic organization that
Mr. Murphy held at the time of this conversation.
A. He was chairman of the Democratic party.
Q. Don't you know that your statement to the notary here to-night is a
piece of willful, malicious, and corrupt perjury, and a lie out of the whole
cloth?
A. It is the truth; you knows it and God knows it.
W. J. HARRISON.
Mr. J. D. Murphy testified most positively that the statement
of the witness Harrison was unconditionally false. See record,
