given the opportunity to consider the
bill, the favorable House action has
reechoed the sentiments of Congress on
this matter for all the Nation or, for
that matter, the whole world to hear.
The speedy Senate endorsement of this
House action is a further reiteration of
these sentiments that makes them all
the more resounding. Considering that
Congress expresses the will of the peo-
ple of these United States, I ask you
how, in good conscience, can the leaders
of this Nation ignore or reject this will
when it has been so clearly expressed
and so consistently rejected?
We did, of course, hear various argu-
ments raised against the bill during the
debate on S. 722. However, I believe
each and every one of these was quite ef-
fectively dispelled and cast by the way-
side. The assertion that the bill is expen-
sive or a giveaway did not hold water in
the face of the facts that of the total $251
million provided, $200 million is to take
the form of loans to be repaid to the
Treasury with interest. This interest
will be equal to the average rate the
Treasury itself pays on what.it borrows
plus one-half of 1 percent. We heard
the charge that the bill infringes on
States rights. This point could not be
reconciled with the provision in the bill
that only applicants approved by a State
agency or political subdivision in which
the project is to be located may receive
aid. These and many equally unrealis-
tic and invalid arguments were raised
against the bill. All were discarded

A 1010

Mlay 10



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0325.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - APPENDIX

when confronted with the true facts,
with logic and with just plain common-
sense. The only conclusion to be drawn
from this is the old adage: "The truth
will out." And it has.
The Area Redevelopment Act is good
legislation that answers a crying need in
a sensible and realistic fashion. The
Congress, in its time-tested wisdom, has
recognized this fact. It is only to be
hoped-and ardently-that those now
responsible for the enactment into law
of this measure can come to this same
realistic realization.
Medical Aid for Elderly?
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
OF
HON. THOMAS B. CURTIS
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 10, 1960
Mr. CURTIS of Missouri. Mr. Speak-
er, under leave to extend my remarks in
the RECORD, I wish to bring to the at-
tention of my colleagues an editorial
which appeared in the St. Louis Globe-
Democrat of May 4, 1960, on the subject
of medical aid for the elderly, as follows:
WE ALREADY HAVE IT-MEDICAL AMD FOR
ELDERLY?
Congressman THOMAS B. CURTIS, JR., Re-
publican, from  the Second Missouri Dis-
trict, has made the most devastating attack
launched yet on the scheme for compulsory
Federal health insurance.
Congress never dreamed, when it went to
work this January, $hat a plan for compul-
sory health insurance would be seriously con-
sidered. But a highly organized lobby has
whipped up strong pressure for compulsory
Federal health insurance for oldsters over-
night.
The biggest, most expensive-and thus
most sought after-scheme is the Forand
bill. This would provide up to 120 days full
care a year in hospitals and nursing homes
to everyone who draws old-age or survivors
social security benefits.
It would also pay drug and surgery bills for
all elderly people, rich or poor, who get social
security checks. The Forand scheme would
cost the taxpayers at least $1 billion a year
to start it off. Some insurance actuaries say
$2 billion.
Congressman CURTIS points out that this
program has some bad flaws in it. It does
not, for example, apply to all old people.
"Millions of persons over 65 who never
were covered by OASI (old-age and survivors
insurance) because of the program's limited
coverage in its beginning will not receive
benefits."
It does not provide medical or hospital
benefits that the indigent can't get now.
Local, State, and Federal Governments,
plus churches, health agencies, fraternal and
benevolent organizations and private groups
all help take care of those-young and old-
who need medical or hospital care, but can't
afford to pay.
"The statement has been made puablicly
many times that today there are no indigent
persons in the United States who do not re-
ceive health- care upon application. These
statements remain unchallenged," Mr. CURTIS
told the House.
What Congress is proposing is a mass Fed-
eral health insurance program, to which all
working Americans must belong and pay

their premiums by taxes withheld from their
paychecks.
This is a big leap into the dark. If it is
taken, it will be only because of a barrage of
mail, not because careful study shows this
new $2 billion scheme is needed.
Next year, a national conference will be
held in Washington on problems of the eld-
erly citizen. It could well consider health
needs of the aged and how to solve them.
Congress has already appropriated $2 million
to finance this conference.
But Capitol Hill, in this election year, is
not interested in awaiting the outcome of
objective studies. It's interested in schemes
that will bring in votes.
Nor   is  the .administration  completely
blameless, Congressman CURTIS charges. He
says the volume of mail for the Forand bill
dropped off sharply after the House Ways
and Means Committee rejected it, 2 to 1, on
March 31. ToM CURTIS is the senior GOP
member of the committee.
However, the bill's chances of passage were
revived by the congressional testimony of
Health, Education, and Welfare Secretary
Flemming, CURTIS said. Flemmings remarks
aroused the Democrats' suspicion.
They got the impression from Flemming
that the administration might sponsor a
takeoff on the Forand bill, "so the Republi-
cans could claim to be the friends of the old
people instead of the Democrats."
After much backstage maneuvering, Flem-
ming is expected to give the White House's
thinking on this subject, in detail, this week.
The Globe-Democrat hopes that a majority
of Congressmen will display the courage that
CURTIS has shown in resisting this high-
pressure lobby. Only ,in that way can the
true medical needs of elderly Americans be
determined above the shameful hurly-burly
of irresponsible politics.
Slack Water Navigation on the Missouri
River
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
OF
HON. GEORGE S. McGOVERN
OF SO7UTH DAKOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 5, 1960
Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, one
of the best qualified authorities on the
subject of river development and electric
power, is Mr. Virgil Hanlon, manager
of the East River Electric P6wer Cooper-
ative, Madison, S. Dak. Mr. Hanlon has
written an interesting article on the
proposed slack water navigation devel-
opment on the Missouri River which I
include at this point in the RECORD:
WATT'S WHAT ON EAST RIVER
(By V. T. Hanlon)
Slack water navigation hearings have made
a great deal of news in South Dakota the
past few weeks; South Dakotans by the score
have been   testifying  before Gen. Keith
Barney of the Corps of Army Engineers that
they want a slack water navigation study
completed as soon as possible.
At the hearings downstream we found the
people had a different story. Here is ap-
proximately the statement of a good share
of the witnesses, "I don't understand slack
water navigation and I don't know what it
means, but I am against the spending of
money for such a study." This might sound
ridiculous, but the testimony of many of the
witnesses was practically carrying that same
theme. It would seem to me this would be

a reason why the study should be made.
Before we can complain that land is to be
flooded and bridges to be inundated, let's
find out what a study would prove.
Actually the story of slack water naviga-
tion is very simple. Either we are going to
have slack water navigation on the Missouri
River or we will have no navigation what-
soever. There is no question that there is
not enough water for all of the multipur-
poses to be satisfied and according to the
OWahoney-Millikin amendment of the Flood
Control Act of 1944, navigation is at the
bottom of the list of priorities in uses of
such water.
The people interested in navigation should
hope that a study for slack water naviga-
tion be Completed as soon as possible and
that it shows that such is feasible if they
want water transportation.
National Science Foundation Rededicates
Itself to Basic Scientific Research
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
OF
HON. JAMES C. OLIVER
OF MAINE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, May 10, 1960
Mr. OLIVER. Mr. Speaker, in these
days of fast-moving events and ever-in-
creasing national and international de-
mands of every description, it is most
refreshing, encouraging and inspiring to
know that we have at the helm of one of
America's most important institutions
for the development of basic scientific
research, the National Science Founda-
tion, a skipper of the caliber and person-
ality of Dr. Alan T. Waterman.
In this connection, the news article
written by William Hines, science direc-
tor for the Washington Star, has been
of special interest to me. If our people,
Mr. Speaker, had more bureaucrats of
the stature of Dr. Waterman leading
our Nation in these days of critical crises,
I am certain that we would be more con-
fident of our future.
The article is as follows:
FOUNDATION REDEDicATEs ITSELF TO BASIC
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
(By William Hines)
Alan Tower Waterman, Ph.D., the first
(and to date only) Director of the National
Science Foundation, sees his principal task
as that of hampering the operation of a sort
of scientific Gresham"s law.
The original Gresham's law, applicable to
economics, held that "bad money drives out
good."    Dr. Waterman observes that the
scientific version-originally propounded by
Vannevar Bush-holds that "applied re-
search drives out basic." It is Dr. Water-
man's view of his own, and his Foundation's,
job to protect the interests of basic research.
Basic research goes to the heart of na-
ture's mysteries, while applied research seeks
methods for making nature work for man-
kind. Examples would be the asking of two
questions: First, why does the uranium
atom act as it does? Second, what can we
do with this peculiar atom? The first ques-
tion is typical pf the basic researcher; the
second, of the seeker after applications.
The Foundation celebrates the 10th anni-
versary of its founding Tuesday. President
Truman signed its enabling act on May 10,
1950, some 6 years after the proposal for a
National Research Foundation was put be-

1960

A4011



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0326.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - APPENDIX

fore President Roosevelt during World War
II. NSF today is the nearest thing to a suc-
cessor to Dr. Bush's Office of Scientific Re-
search and Development.
But it is much more than just a latter-
day OSRD. Operating with amazingly little
overhead and red tape, NSF has disbursed
almost half a billion dollars in aid of science
and scientists.
REQUEST FOR $191 MILLION
NSF has come a long way since fiscal 1952,
when the White House asked for $14 million.
The House cut the request to $300,000, the
Senate boosted it to $6 million and a con-
ference agreed on $3.6 million. The differ-
ence today is in degree rather than in kind:
The figures are bigger but the fight still goes
on. This year's request was a record $191.6
million, slashed at this point to $160 million.
What does the Foundation do with its
money? Principally, two things: (1) Grants
in support of basic research and (2) grants
designed to improve the qualifications of
science teachers. A third major project is
about to get under way, if the money is
forthcoming-grants to enable worthy col-
leges to refurbish their obsolete research
laboratories.
Dr. Waterman has resisted quite effec-
tively the tendency of another law-Park-
inson's-to operate in his section of the
Government. This law holds that bureaus
expand at a constant rate regardless of the
work to be done. NSF manages to handle
its work with a payroll of only about 480
persons at an administrative overhead cost
of approximately 4 percent of the budget.
Many agencies with less impact on the econ-
omy have larger and costlier mimeograph
battalions.
NO EMPIRE BUILDER
For a bureaucrat-as Dr. Waterman must
be classified by virtue of his years at the
heim  of a major Government office-the
NSF director is singularly unbureaucratic in
his outlook. He shuns the idea of empire
building and rejects the idea that NSF might
become the nucleus of   "Department of
Science." Such a department is a pet proj-
ect of Dr. Wallace Brode, science adviser to
the Secretary of State. (By coincidence, Dr.
Brode's identical twin brother, Robert, is as-
sociate director of NSF.)
Explaining his opposition to an all-em-
bracing science department, Dr. Waterman
says development work must be the respon-
sibility of the agency that is going to use
the end product. "You can't have some
overall department telling them what to
do," he adds.
Dr. Waterman points out that one major
research agency-the National Bureau of
Standards-is under the Department of
Commerce because 75 percent of the Bu-
reau's work is a service function to indus-
try and the rest is research and development
to go with the main work. If the Stand-
ards Bureau were to become a part of a
science department, the service side of its
work would suffer, Dr. Waterman asserts.
Hardly a branch of science has been un-
touched by the influence of NSF in its brief
decade of existence. An outstanding con-
tribution of the foundation was in connec-
tion  with  the International Geophysical
Year; another in the space-satellite instru-
mentation field; still another in Antarctic
exploration.
MEETING COMPETITION
Dr. Waterman sees the Foundation-and
the country-faced with the big future sci-
entific challenge of meeting the competition
of other nations. "I'm not just talking
about Russia in science," Dr. Waterman elab-
orates. "I'm  thinking of China, too-the
threat there is much worse; China Is bigger,
its scientists are very good, and its science
Is coming along."
Not only the eastern Big Two are rising to
challenge the United States, the NSF director

points out. "Look at the Germans and
Japanese: Great organizers, very industrious,
love to work.
"Work-we don't seem to love it the way
they do. And somehow we don't believe very
strongly in pure science."
Another challenge lies In improving the
quality of secondary schoolteaching in the
sciences, Dr. Waterman believes. Through
summer institutes at colleges-supported but
not dictated  to  by  NSF-about 25,000
teachers a year are brushing up on this vital
group of subjects.
"This is essential," Dr. Waterman says.
"Bring a bright boy or girl up against a sci-
ence teacher without an aptitude for teach-
ing, and you've lost a student. He or she
goes somewhere else."
THE FOUNDATION SETUP
Dr. Waterman's Foundation is supervised
by a 24-member national science board to
which he belongs ex officio and whose chair-
man is National Academy of Sciences Presi-
dent Detlev W. Bronk. The Academy and
the Foundation are close physically as well
as intellectually. The Foundation is in the
1900 bock of Constitution Avenue NW. (in
the old Atomic Energy Commission) build-
ing) and the Academy is in the 2100 block.
Dr. Waterman is a gentle, white-haired
man of slightly less than average height.
At 67 he has the air and quiet wit of a col-
lege teacher, as he was for many years.
A native of Cornwall on Hudson, N.Y., Dr.
Waterman took his Ph. D. in physics at
Princeton and taught that subject at Yale.
In point of his divided Ivy League loyalties,
Dr. Waterman once told the story of a classi-
fied ad in a newspaper offering a Job oppor-
tunity and specifying that the applicant
must be "Yale graduate or equivalent."
One applicant, according to Dr. Waterman,
wrote in to ask what "equivalent" meant-
"two Harvard men, or a Princeton man part-
time?"
"The Federal Government and Higher
Education"-Address      by    Senator
Joseph S. Clark, of Pennsylvania, at
the 17th American Assembly, May 7,
1960
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
OF
HON. JOHN BRADEMAS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 5, 1960
Mr. BRADEMAS. Mr. Speaker, it
was my great privilege last week to take
part in the 17th American Assembly
which was held at Arden House, Harri-
man, N.Y., to discuss the subject of "The
Federal Government and Higher Edu-
cation."
A cross section of educators, business-
men, labor leaders and public officials
listened to an excellent address on the
subject of the conference delivered by
the distinguished senior Senator from
Pennsylvania, the Honorable JOSEPH S.
CLARK.
Senator CLARK'S keen analytical mind
and his appreciation of the profound im-
portance to American society of higher
education makes his address one of the
most valuable discussions of this prob-
lem I have ever heard. As Senator
CLARK said at Arden House, "The pur-
pose of higher education is the staffing
of freedom."

I commend to Members of Congress
the reading of Senator CLARK'S remarks:
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AND HIGHER
EDUCATION
Reasonable men cannot study American
higher education in any depth without con.
cluding that drastic steps must Immediately
be taken to equip our colleges and universi-
ties to turn out more and better educated
students in the years ahead.
Reasonable men who study higher educa-
tion must also agree that such steps must
facilitate:
1. A much larger, much better trained
and much better paid corps of university
and college professors and Instructors.
2. A very large expansion of academic fa-
cilities-libraries, laboratories, and  class-
rooms.
3. The admission into college, and the
maintenance through graduate school, of all
high school graduates who have the capacity
and character necessary to assimilate col-
lege and graduate work.
Since you are all reasonable men and
since you have been considering American
higher education for the last 2 days at Ar-
den House, I will assume that you have
reached these conclusions. I shall accord-
ingly not reiterate the obvious but devote
the time we have together to discussing how
we can do what needs to be done about
higher education in America.
WHERE ARE WE GOING TO GET THE MONEY?
It is obvious that while money alone will
not solve the problems of our colleges and
universities, these problems are not going
to be solved without a lot more money than
is now available. Some years ago there was
a Congressman from the central part of
Pennsylvania who used to enter every de-
bate on the floor of the House which in-
volved the expenditure of Federal funds
with the inquiry: "Where are you going to
get the money?" So perhaps we should
start our discussion with ,the same question:
Where are we going to get the money?-you
and I and the millions of other Americans
who understand that in the immortal If
tautological words of one of my congression-
al colleagues: "This is no ordinary crisis
which confronts us."
I would answer that we are going to have
to get the money we need from wherever we
can lay our hands on it. For, in all likeli-
hood, the total amount we can raise from all
sources, at least in the next decade, is not
going to be enough.'
In our democracy there is always in peace-
time, and sometimes even in war, an inordi-
nate lag between challenge and response--
between the acknowledgment of a need in
the minds of the well-informed and a meet-
ing of that need by the considered action of
our free society.
WE CANNOT AFFORD TO WAIT A GENERATION
As I had occasion to remark some years
ago: "The philosophy of the reformers in the
universities becomes the action platform of
the liberal politicians of the next genera-
tion." The trouble is, we cannot afford to
wait a generation to do what so many of
you know must be done in the field of higher
education.
The need in dollars has been well estab-
lished, nowhere more clearly than by Messrs.
John A. Perkins and Daniel W. Wood in their
penetrating study "Issues in Federal Aid to
Higher Education" which all of us have re-
cently read. Let us accept their figures and
assume we will need to triple the annual
level of expenditures for operations during
the next decade-rising to a level $6 to $9
billion higher than the present $3.5 billion-
add another $15 to $33 billion for capital
growth over that period to provide America
with a first-class system of higher education
by 1970. I repeat the question: Where are
we going to get the money?

A4012

May 10



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0327.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - APPENDIX

I reply: Some of it will come from the an-
nual gifts of the graduates and friends of
our colleges and universities. But most of
this kind of money will help the richer in-
stitutions to do better the good job they
are already doing. It Is not a source which
will spread the wealth where it is most
needed.
Some of It will come from bequests from
the wealthy. This will be largely, though
not entirely, for facilities rather than oper-
ations. And, again, it will tend to go to
richer institutions which are already doing
a first-class job in terms of quality, and
whose capacity and desire to handle in-
creased enrollment are limited.
Some of it will come from tuition and
other payments by more students. Some
may come from increases in these charges,
but there is not much liquid in the bottom
of this barrel and there are strong reasons
of sound national policy for making higher
education cheaper, rather than more expen-
sive, as Messrs. Perkins and Wood have well
pointed out.
CORPORATE GIVING FOR EDUCATION A LIMITED
SOURCE
Some of it wll come from corporate giv-
ing-in fact, quite a lot of it. I would hope
that educational administrators and fund
raisers would intensify their efforts to ob-
tain money from this source-thereby, be-
cause of our Federal tax exemptions, making
Uncle Sam a silent partner to the extent of
more than one-half of each gift. Again, we
must note the limitations of this source of
funds: the gifts will tend to fluctuate sub-
stantially in amount with the ebb and flow
of our econoffy. And they will tend to en-
rich schools of business and the natural sci-
ences at the expense of the humanities and
the social sciences. Thus it will cover only
a part of a part of the need.
Some of it will come from private founda-
tions and, on balance, this kind of money
comes closest to being spent where the need
is greatest. But no one will contend 'that
the private foundationg can do the whole
job.
Some of it will come from State taxation.
The States are not presently doing enough.
They will have to do more. But most of
them are incapable, as a practical matter of
doing much more quickly. The reasons are
obvious-regressive tax systems frozen by
outmoded constitutions which are well nigh
impossible to change; domination of State
legislatures by conservative elements who
have little understanding of the need; a
heavy demand for other State services which
are not being adequately provided, among
them the requirements for aid to local school
districts; and, finally, the ordinary selfish
motivation of ordinary decent citizens who
hate taxes and don't understand the problem.
Not much of it will come from local taXa-
tion, although here and there-a community
college will be helped. The resources of
many a school district are already spent or
pledged, or both, to the limit. The others
will have a hard enough time keeping up
with primary and secondary education re-
quirements. And, by and large, their tax
systems are even more regressive than those
of the States.
THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT USED BY A FREE
PEOPLE TO SOLVE NATIONAL PROBLEMS
So what have we left? Only the Federal
Government. Government is the agency
which, you will recall, Lincoln referred to as
existing to do for people that which they
cannot do or do as well for themselves. The
National Government is the usual means by
which a free people tackles a problem public
in its character and national in its scope.
We use our Federal Government to wage
war, to conduct diplomacy, to guide the na-
tional economy in a score of areas. We use
it to operate a nationwide system of social

security, to construct great public works, and
to support our industry and commerce in
many different fields. It operates our poet
offices and our national parks. It helps build
houses and clear slums. It helps build hos-
pitals and engages in extensive welfare op-
erations. Without it, most of the progress we
have made in this country during the 20th
century would have been quite impossible.
Yet, whenever the suggestion arises that
we use our Federal Government to tackle a
new  problem-any new problem-a cry of
horror arises. When Federal action is pro-
posed to help solve the crisis in higher edu-
cation, the outcry comes from many sides, n-
cluding such strange allies as the United
State Chamber of Commerce and certain of
the more lush groves of academe.
This stereotyped reaction deserves some
basic attention. Why are we Americans, per-
haps alone among the civilized peoples of the
earth, so reluctant to use this great Instru-
mentality which we control and which lies
at our disposal?
Surely democratic government is a tool to
be used by the people to solve their collective
problems and to improve their collective lot.
Yet a multitude of influential Americans re-
gard their National Government with that
same measure of suspicion and hostility with
which the ancient Aztecs greeted Cortez and
his Spanish army in the mountains of Mex-
ico. One would think, to hear the talk, that
to turn to Washington in a time of need
would be more like surrendering to a foreign
power than utilizing one's own resources.
The conventional wisdom in America still
agrees with Jefferson that "that government
is best which governs least." If chaos results
and problems are swept under the rug, never
mind, we are the same free people who drove
the minions of George III into the Atlantic.
DISTRUST OF GOVERNMENT CAN BE DANGEROUS
IN 20TH CENTURY
This inbred and deep-seated distrust of
government may have had sound historical
roots in the 18th century, but it is dan-
gerous indeed in the 20th. For it is only our
National Government that can mobilize and
direct the resources of our society when they
must be mobilized. And we should all pon-
der whether the United States as an un-
mobilized society can long compete with the
determined, mobilized, aggressive     society
that confronts us today from the other side
of the Iron Curtain.
This district of government has always
been present in American thought, going
back, as noted, to our unfortunate experi-
ences with King George III, heightened by
the excesses of the French Revolution and
of Bonaparte, and strengthened by the physi-
cal distance between the frontier and Wash-
ington, D.C. But the distrust did not break
out into open warfare until the days of
Franklin Roosevelt, when-from the stand-
point of many powerful persons in our so-
ciety-the worst suspicions anyone had held
about the evil nature of the National Gov-
ernment were confirmed. Mr. Roosevelt set
out, through the Government, to regulate
the stock exchange, to impose a death sen-
tence on utility holding companies, to use
the taxing power as a means of coercion and
regulation, to engage in direct competition
with the electric power and the lending in-
dustries, and, most important, to proclaim
what called a Magna Carta for labor's right
to organize. Being unable to prevent or re-
peal these specific invasions of government
into the domain of the plutocracy, powerful
opponents of the New Deal set out to dis-
credit government itself.
Thus, in the publications which they con-
trolled-and these were legion-the fine old
term "public servant" disappeared from the
lexicon and the derogatory word "bureau-
crat" took its place.    "Citizens" became
"taxpayers"-usually depicted by cartoon-
lsts as clad only in a barrel. The word

"taxes" was rarely seen without the prefixed
adjective "confiscatory" or "crippling" or the
synonym "burden." Public spending was re-
ferred to always as a "cost," never as a bene-
fit, and normally with the prefix "wasteful."
Government activities of all kinds were
freely termed "socialism," with dark allu-
sions that beyond the so-called "socialism"
of the New Deal lay communism. Ulti-
mately, you will recall, the groundwork was
so well laid that when the McCarthy witch
hunt was on      and  public servants were
burned alive at the stake of publicity, a
large portion of the American public cele-
brated as though we had just defeated the
Communists on the battlefield.
LIPPMANN, STEVENSON, FULBIIGHT CRITICAL OF
STARVATION OF PUBLIC tERVICES
We have recovered a bit from the worst
of the anti-Government crusade. There are
now thoughtful and sensitive men, like
Walter Lippman, and Adlai Stevenson, and
Senator FULBRIGHT, suggesting that the fiscal
starvation of public services like education
is a matter for national shame rather than
national pride. Yet the conventional wis-
dom has not been greatly modified. I speak
with assurance, because the conventional
propaganda output flows across a Senator's
desk by the ream.
To support the conventional thesis that
the Federal Government is essentially evil
and should be dismantled, a whole school of
economics has grown up.
We are told that the oppressive weight
of Federal taxation is destroying enterprise
and stifling investment-even though the
Federal Reserve Board believes it necessary
to pursue a stringent tight money policy
to curtail investment and restrain enterprise.
THE ANTI-GOVERNMENT CRUSADE
We axre told that Federal debt is climb-
ing out of control and threatening the
soundness of the dollar-even though our
debt burden, in relation to our income, has
steadily deolined and is now but half the
percentage of our gross national product
that it was a little more than a decade ago.
We are told that Federal spending is dan-
gerously inflationary, even when the budget
is balanced. And this comes from the same
people who are constantly encouraging pri-
vate citizens through every medium of com-
munication to go into debt spending money
they don't have for things they don't need
and didn't know they wanted until the "hid-
den persuaders" went to work on them.
We are told that the Federal Government
is costly and inefficient and therefore the
States should do the job-when every ob-
jective test shows that Federal employees are
better selected, better trained, and better su-
pervised on the average than- State em-
ployees, and that the Federal tax system is
more equitable and more efficient than State
tax systems.
Thus the case Is put together against ac-
tion by the Federal Government at any
time for any purpose.
THE NEW ANARCHY
I have called this anti-Government fixa-
tion "the new anarchy." And if anyone
present doesn't believe these neoanarchists
exist, just let this assembly go on record
tomorrow in favor of comprehensive Federal
aid for higher education. Then you will
hear from them. I can tell you in advance
that nearly every major business organiza-
tion in the country will oppose you. So
will the journals of plutocratic opinion
which guide and reflect the conventional
wisdom of the business community.
I assume that In this conference we are
prepared to brave the wrath of the neo-
anarchists. I assume also that we are pre-
pared to follow where the facts of the crisis,
rather than our prejudices, lead us. If the
projections of needs and resources told us
that Federal aid is not required, no one

1960

A4013



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0328.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - APPENDIX

would have been happier than I. But des-
pite the labored statistics of the Council for
Financial Aid to Education, Inc, and the
wishful thinking of the Committee for Eco-
nomic Development. they don't. Since the
facts lead us toward the Federal Govern-
ment, let us be calm. Let us keep our heads
and repeat together:
"The Federal Government is not our
enemy, it is our friend. It is not an alien
power, it Is the creature of the American
people. It will do what they want It to.
It is not a monster which can ignore their
will."
I will not dwell at length with the objec-
tion that Federal aid win lead to Federal
control, as so often asserted by those who
fear change. I am    sure you have analyzed
this argument fully in the last 2 days.
I will only say that, in my opinion, it is a
myth that Federal aid means Federal con-
trol. Truly we are wise enough to legis-
late and to administer so as to prevent an
end result we don't desire. I will only say
to those who oppose Federal assistance:
What is your alternative, and is it not clear
that the only real alternative is a second-
class educational system?
HOW CAN FEDERAL AID TO EDUCATION BE
PROVIDED?
Let us turn, then, to how Federal aid to
higher education can best be provided.
You will be disappointed, perhaps, when
I start by saying that finding the answer
to this question is more your job than
mine. Government programs do not ordi-
narily spring full-grown to life from the
brows of Senators. A public need must be
established. So must public awareness of
that need and public support for its satis-
faction.
Leadership must come from people who
are determined and informed.
We got a Federal aid for public schools
bill through the Senate this winter because
the National Education Association knew
what it wanted and lobbied its program
across.
Something like the Forand bill, providing
health Insurance for the elderly will, in
all likelihood, pass the Congress largely be-
cause the AFL-CIO knows what it wants
and is working hard to get it.
The   Hill-Burton   hospital  construction
plan sails -through Congress with new ap-
propriations each year because the organized
hospital administrators and their trustees
worked out a sound plan and lobbied to
get it passed.
We have a college housing program be-
cause  the colleges and     universities  are
united In support of it.
CITIZENS INTERESTED IN HIGHER EDUCATION
MUST ACT
Unfortunately, citizens interested in high-
er education do not yet seem to know what
else they want. And this includes trustees
as well as college presidents and their fac-
ulties.
Let me give you an example of what I
have in mind. Three years ago the Presi-
dent's Committee on Education Beyond the
High School, chaired by my good friend,
Devereux Josephs, presented a series of rec-
ommendations. Included was a proposal for
Federal grants for higher educational fa-
cilities on the pattern of the Hill-Burton
Act.
Now, Hill-Burton Act grants for hospitals
are made pursuant to a carefully worked
out plan to meet hospital needs prepared
with the cooperation of the American Hos-
pital Association and other hospital groups.
It cannot be transposed to the higher edu-
cational field  without careful rethinking
which must be participated in by the uni-
versities themselves.
Yet that rethinking has never been done.
The idea put forward by the Josephs Com-
mittee 3 years ago died as completely as

if it had never been born. Why did higher
education drop It? Wasn't there anybody
In  the field  with  interest or Initiative
enough to pick up the thought, refine it,
agitate for It, and eventually get it seriously
considered by both the President and the
Congress? Apparently not.
I don't know myself whether the sugges-
tion of the Josephs Commission is feasible,
but the higher educational community
should know and, If it does not, it ought to
find out.
Politicians should be out in front of the
people, I agree. We have a duty of leader-
ship. But we cannot afford to get too far
ahead of the people we lead. For if we do,
there is a great risk we will be shot down
from behind on election day.
CAN EXISTING EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS DO
THE JOB?
I wonder whether existing organizations In
the field of higher education are set up to do
the needed job of working out a proper plan
for Federal aid and then lobbying vigorously
for it? I suspect that, to some extent, they
are immobilized by internal divisions on the
basic questions, first, of whether Federal aid
in any form is desirable and, second, if so,
who should get it? The American Council on
Education, the American Association of Land
Grant Colleges and State Universities, the
Council for Financial Aid to Education, Inc.,
the Association of American Colleges, the
Association of American Universities, the
Council for the Advancement of Small Col-
leges, the Association for Higher Education
of the National Education Association, and
the American Association of Junior Colleges
are a rather heterogeneous group to unite on
a legislative program. Would it not be de-
sirable to organize an ad hoc committee of
leading educators and other citizens who are
convinced of the need for Federal aid so that,
when   they meet, they need      not argue
whether, but only how?
Let us remember that educators are not
monks who take a vow of poverty, both for
themselves and for the institutions they
serve. They, too, are American citizens with
the riglit, indeed the duty, to petition for
redress of grievances and to indicate to their
elected representatives how they would like
those grievances redressed.
