tlought that this alien was of a class that shofild be excluded,

and,' proceeding upon that assumption, the steamship company
was fined $200. It subsequently developed that the alien was
not of that class and was entitled-to enter the United States,
and now it is necessary to reimbu'se the steamship company for
the actual amount of the fine that was paid.
Mr. BEE. I am not questioning the justice of the claim; but
I have in mind, as a member of the Committee on Claims, bills
pending before the committee that have been there for years, on
the question of refund of taxes, and the gentleman from Michi-
gan has one for the refund of a fine. I just wondered why J . D.
Spreckels & Bros. Co. did not take their course through the
Committee on Claims and have-a bill introduced for their relief
instead of providing for it in the sundry civil bill?
Mr. GOOD. I am advised that in cases of this kind, where
a collection had been made through mistake in judgment-an
err6neous collecti6in-reimburseients have always been carried
on this bill.
The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will read.
The Clerk read' as follows:
NATURALIZATION SERVICE.
For compensation, to be fixed by the Secretary of Labor, of examiners,
Interpreters, clerks, and stenographers, for the purpose of carrying on
the work of the Bureau of Naturalization, provided for by the act ap-
proved June 29, 1906, as amended by the act approved March 4, 1913
(Stats. L., vol. 37, p. 736), and May 9, 1918 (Stats. L., vol. 40, pp.
542, 548' inclusive), including'not to exceed $50,000 for personal
services in the District of Columbia, and for their actual necessary
traveling expenses while absent from their official stations,' including
street car fare on official business at official stations, together with
per diem in lieu of subsistence, when allowed pursuant to section 13
of the sundry civil appropriation act approved August 1, 1914, and
for such per (licm together with actual necessary traveling expenses of
officers and employees of the Bureau of Naturalization in Washington
while absent on ollicial duty outside of the District of Columbia;
telegrams, verifications of legal papers, telephone service in offices out-
side of the District of Columbia; not to exceed $13,400 f~r rent of
offices outside of the District of Columbia where suitable quarters can
not be obtained In public buildings; carrying into effect section 13 of
the act of June 29, 1006 (34 Stats., p. 600), as amended by the act
approved June 25. 1910 (36 Stats., p. 765), and in accordance with
the provisions of the sundry civil act of June 12, 1917 ;and for mileage
and fees to witnesses subpmnaed on behalf of the United States, the
expenditures from this appropriation shall be made in the manner and
under such regulations as the Secretary of Labor maly prescribe,
$525,000: Pro.vided. That no ]'art of this appropriation shall be avail-
able for the comtpensation of assistants to clerks of United States
courts.
Mr. BLANTON. Mr. Chairman, I make a point of order
against the following portion of the paragraph. On page 159,
beginning with line 23:
And for such per diem together with actual traveling expenses of
officers' and employees of the Bureau of Naturalization in Washington
while absent on official duty outside of the District of Columbia.
. For the reason that it is new legislation and unauthorized by
law. I call the chairman's attention to the fact that the pter
diem traveling expenses are fixed by law. This is an attempt
to enlarge it and leave it unlimited, without any anount fixed
even, and to let them be confined to whatever may be termed
actual traveling expenses, without any limitation on them
whatever. There is no law for it, and it is unauthorized.
.Mr. GOOD. This does not change the law. The general
law provides that the limit shall be a per diem of $4, and not
to exceed $5 actual expenses.
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair will suggest that this amend-
ment does not limit it to $5.
Mr. GOOD. That is existing law. There is nothing in this
provision that gives them the right to exceed what is provided
in the general statute.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. It is clearly an appropriation. Money
under the law could not be paid out of ain appropriation. This
is merely an appropriation, and the money that is expended
must be expended under the law. This does not change the
law.
Mr. BLANTON. If there is law for it, there is no .;eed for
this appropriation.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. Oh, yes. There is need for appro.
priation. This is merely descriptive of the purpose of the ap-
propriation.
. Mr. BLANTON. The chairman is a good lawyer, and lie
knows that under the provisions of this clause, as written, it
would not be limited necessarily to the $5 a day as a maximum.
Mr. 'MANN    of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, of course, this is
merely descriptive of what the $525,000.at the end of the par.
graph is for. It does not enlarge.the law or. change the law,
and without the language the $525,000 could not be paid for per
diem expenses as the law provides, 'because there must be av
appropriation as well a law for the payment of the noney,
This does not change the law.
Mr. GOOD. Mr. Chairman, the law provides as follows:
On and after July 1, 1914, unless otherwise expressly provided by
law, no officer or employee of the United States shall be allowed or
paid any sum in excess of expenses actually incurred for subsistence

1920.

6875



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0394.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

while traveling on duty outside of the District of Columbia and away
from his designated post of duty, nor any sum for such expenses
actually incurred in excess of $5 a day.
Now, we are not changing that law. This appropriation, as
stated by the gentlema4 from Illinois [Mr.-MANN] is just de-
scriptive of the purpose for which the money can be expended.
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair is ready to rule. The !Chair
wats under the impression, when the point of order was first
raised, that the purpose of this language was to repeal the law
which limits the actual expenses which may be allowed to an
officer of tel Government while traveling on official business
to $5. On careful examination of the provision the Chair is
of the opinion that the provision to which the gentleman from
Texas [Mr. BLANTON] makes the point of order does not change
the existing law, and would not authorize the allowance of
traveling expenses in excess of the amount fixed by law, but
is simply an appropriation of an amount for the purpose of
.payment of the expense which is authorized by law.
Mr. BLANTON. Mr. Chairman, under tie construction
placed upon the law by the Chairman, the department would
necessarily be guided by it, and therefore I withdraw the poiit
of order.
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair overrules the point of order,
and the Clerk will read.
Mr. SIEGEL. Mr. Chairman, I offer an amendment.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from New York offers an
amendment, which the Clerk will report.
The Clerk read as follows:
Amendment offered by Mr. SIEGEL: Page 160, line 14", after the word
"prescribe," strike out the figures " $525,000" and insert " and the
requirement in section 4 of time act of June 29, 1906 (34 Stat. L., pt.
1, p. 590), that an alien shall file a certificate of arrival from the De-
partmnent of Labor with the clerk of the court at the time of filing a
petition for naturalization, is hereby repealed, $520,000."
Mr. RAKER. Mr. Chairman, I make the point of order
against the amendment.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman froit California makes a
point of order against the alendment.
Mr. RAKER. The point of order is that it is new legislation.
The law now requires, under the fourth section of the act of
June 29, 1906-Thirty-fourth Statutes at Large, part 1, page
596-that tile party on application for naturalization shall pre-
sent a certificate of his landing, and this would repeal that.
The legislative, executive, and  judicial appropriation bill,
which came in here some time ago, carried an amendment of
that kind, and the Chair held it out of order.
STile CHAIRMAN. Does the gentleman from New York de-
sire to be heard on the point of order?
Mr. SIEGEL. I do. By the adoption of this amendment we
would save at least $5,000, reducing the amount froin $525,000
to $520,000. It would do away with the proposition of requir-
ing every applicant for citizenship to produce a certificate of
arrival.
I hold a letter in my hand from the Assistant Secretary of
Labor, dated April. 30, 1920, showing conclusively that at the
port of New York at the present time there are 10,000 such.
applications that can not be acted upon, and that they are
behind at least five months in acting upon them. They are be-
hind at Montreal several months, and at various other ports
the same regrettable condition prevails. I may also' add that
the Committee on Immigration and Naturalization has reported
a bill, H. R. .3646, which repeals the ecrtificate-of-arrival pro-
vision; and by the adoption of this amendment we would
relieve at 'least a dozen clerks from doing this useless work
and at the same time save $5,000. The newspapers and others
interested in having aliens become American citizens, including
the Bureau of Naturalization, are all in favorof the adoption
of this amendment.
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair is ready to rule. The amend-
n nt of the gentleman from New York [Mr. SIEGEL] inserts the
following provision in the paragraph under consideration:
And the requirement in section 4 of the act of June 29, 1906 (34
Stat. L., pt. 1, p. 596), that ail alien shall file a certificate on
arrival, from the )epartment of Labor, with the clerk of the court at
the time of filing a petition for naturalization is hereby repealed,
$520,000.
To this proposed amendment the gentleman from California
[Mr. RAKER] makes the point of order that it is new legisla-
tion and therefore not in order on an appropriation bill.
The gentleman from New York [Mr. SIEGEL] contends that
the amendment is in order under the Holman rule, because it
reduces expenditures. The Chair thinks that the Holman rule,
properly construed, so far as it relates to amendments offered
by a Member on the floor, only permits legislation in the sense
of legislation reducing the number or salary of officers of the
United States or the compensation fixed by law to be paid out
of the Treasury of the United States to such officer, or by
reduction of the amounts of money carried by the bill;, that

the Holman rule does not contemplate the repeal, or make in
order amendments which in effect repeal, the substdrtive'pro-
visions of law.
'The Chair is aware of the fact that the opinion lie is now
.rendering is in some respects not in line With the 'decisions
which have recently been rendered by chairmen of the Col-
mittee of the Whole. The Chair will not at this time undertake
to go into those precedents. The Chair is of the opinion that
an amendment repealing substantive provisions of law is not
in order under the Holnlan rule. The Chair therefore sustains
the point of order.
Mr. SIEGEL. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to
insert in the RECORD a letter from the Department of Labor on
the subject.
'The CHAIRMAN.        The gehtleman from      New   York asks
unanimous consent to extend his remarks by inserting a letter
from the Secretary of Labor. Is there objection?
There was no objection.
Following Is the letter referred to:
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR,
OFFICE OF THIE ASSISTANT SECRETARY,
Washington, April 80, 1920.
Hon. ISAAC SIEGEL,
• Representative in Congress, Washington, D. C.
MY DEAR AIR. SIEGEL: In response to your letter of the 27th instant
to the Commissioner of Naturalization, I beg to say that the delay in
furnishing certificates of arrival for naturalization purposes is tnot
due to any congestion in this work prevailing in the Bureau of Natu-
ralization. For some time past that bureau has kept this line of work*
in such a state of currency that applications for certificates of arrival
are handled by it on the date of receipt, or at most one or two (lays
following. The delays are at ports of entry, where they are caused by
apparently unavoidable congestion of other work.
To Illustrate the state of arrearage in certificate of arrival work at
Ellis Island, I may say that. applications for such papers which the
Bureau of Naturalization referred to Ellis Island in December, 1919,
are now being received back with the required arrival certificates.
This degree of arrearage has existed for many months past. I hate
at present no way of accurately stating just what congestion in this
work exists at Ellis Island, but I would estimate that the Ellis Island
immigration authorities now have on hand about 10,000 applications for
certificates of arrival. These* consist of applications received at that
port from the Bureau of Naturalization, commencing from the early
part of December, 1919.
Another port where a similar degree of arrearage exists, although
not in the same proportion as regards numbers, is Montreal. At the
other large Immigration ports, such as Boston, Philadelphia, and Balti-
more, the delay in furnishing certificates of arrival is comparatively
slight and not sufficient to suggest ground for complaint.
Very sincerely, yours,
LouIs F. POST,
Assistant Secretary.
The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will read.
The Clerk read as follows:
Contingent expenses: For contingent and miscellaneous expenses of
the offices at Washington, D. C., including purchase of blank books,
maps,, stationery, file cases, towels, ice, brooms, soap, freight and express
charges; telegraph and telephone service; printing and binding; and
all other miscellaneous items and necessary expenses not included in
the foregoing, and necessary to collect loans made to corporations and
associations, $20,000.
Mr. BLANTON. I move to strike out the last word. I notice
under this heading which carries this $20,000 appropriation
there is an item for printing and binding. The gentleman will
remember the very large book which this Housing Corporation
got out-an illustrated book with fine steel engravings in it, and
so forth. It must'have cost a great deal of money. Is'the
chairman going to permit that to be done over again?
Mr. GOOD. If the chairman of the Committee on Apropria-
tiofis could stop some of this useless printing and binding he
would certainly do it. That is not the only department of the
Government that has engaged in this practice. One newspaper
has sent me the dope that it received in one week from all the
departments of the Government. Here it is. Most of the let-
ters unopened. They say they do not open them.
Mr. BLANTON. But the gentleman is going far afield froiu
the subject. -I am   confining it to this Housing Corporation,
which got out this very large illustrated book with steel en-
gravings in it. -Is that going to be done over again this year
out of this $20,000?   -
Mr. GOOD. At the time they got out that book they had
unlimited funds. I do not think they propose to engage in any.
printing of that kind. It was the intention of the committee
that the printing and binding and other expenses should neces-
sarily be very limited. The Housing Corporation is a liquidat-
ing proposition. There is a bill now in conference-
Mr. BLANTON. Then if they. go beyond the liquidating
proposition in this printing and binding, they will go beyond
the express will of this Congress?
Mr. GOOD. They certainly will. They certainly would not
be warranted in going to any expense in republishing the book
to which the gentleman refers, or anything like it.
Mr. CLARK of Missouri. Will'the gentleman yield for a
question?
Mr. GOOD. Certainly.

6876

MAY 11,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0395.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

Mr. CLARK of Missouri.: Is there no way in the world to stop
the departments from running their printing presses?
Air. GOOD. I do not know. There ought to-be. Here Is one
publication entitled, "Preface to a Report of the United States
Food Administration, by Herbert Hoover, April, 1920." Here
are three copies of it received by one newspaper on one day,
all printed on a very expensive calendared paper. Here are
other reports, from all the departments, coming to this one
newspaper every week. They say they do not read them, do
not open them; that they throw them in the wastebasket; yet
these Government clerks, 100,000of them, are here in Washihg-
ton, and it must be necessary to keep a great many'of them just
sending out this useless stuff.
Mr. CLARK of Missouri. I know that half the country news-
papers protest against receiving these things at all.
Mr. GOOD. Certainly, and they are objecting to the useless
waste of paper in this way, which deprives them of the paper
they would like to have to publish their little papers.
Mr. BLANTON. Can we not stop it?
Mr. GOOD. It is an administrative proposition. The Con-
gress can not run the legislative branch and the administrative
branch too.
Mr. BLANTON. If we cut off this $20,000, they would not
have the $20,000 .to spend.
Air. GOOD. The United States Housing Corporation have
about $60,000,000 worth of property. They are selling that prop-
erty, and selling it on payments. There is a good deal in the
way of notices and things of that kind that must be sent to
buyers, and for that purpose they must have a fund.
Mr. MA.NN of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, it is not always so easy
to control these printing expenses. We may cut down the ap-
propriation. Very recently some of the departments sent in
deficiency estimates for appropriations and said that they were
absolutely essential, that they must have additional money in
order to be able to print the necessary data from day to day;
things that ought to be printed, things that everybody believes
ought to be printed. We can not specify in an appropriation bill
in every case just what documents shall be printed with the
money appropriated. This sort of extravagance in printing is
not chargeable to any political administration. It is just the
natural tendency- and desire of men who wish to put into print
something that has emanated from their brains-or lack of
brains-and It is not entirely confined to administrative officers;
because the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD shows that that feeling per-
vades even the sanctity of this Chamber, and sometimes I have
suspected that it has even reached the person of my beloved
friend from Texas.
Mr. BLANTON. I admit it. The CONGRESSIONAL RECORD IS
the best medium on God's green earth with whlici to reach the
people of the United States, because it is absolutely uncensored,
and the newspapers are not.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. People do not read the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD. The newspapers which receive the CONGRESSIONAL REC-
ORD, as a rule, throw it in the wastebasket without taking off the
cover, and nearly everybody else does.
Mr. BLANTON. The people are beginning to read It.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. The gentleman from Texas i'eads the
CONGRESSIONAL ]RECORD because he has so much in it.
Mr. BLANTON. And the best things I ever read in it are
speeches made in fights conducted on the floor by the distin-
guished gentleman from Illinois [Air. AiANN].
Mr. MANN of Illinois. Oh, they were good; but I did not
take the trouble to read them.
Mr. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, on this subject of printing un-
necessary documents the statement has been very properly made
that Congress is not always responsible for what the heads of
the executive departments print;.but I want to take this occa-
sion to call the attention of the House to the fact that each day
there is sent to the membership the House Calendar, which, iI
my opinion, contains quite a good deal of unnecessary matter.
Since I have been a Member of the House, the Sixty-sixth Con-
gress is the first Congress in which that has been done. Here-
tofore we got our calendars over at the House document room
or down at the desk whenever we wanted them. Now, I have
no complaint to make at the custom of sending out the House
Calendar to the offices of Members, but in that calendar is printed
an index of bills. The whole document makes 108 pages daily,
of which only 30 pages are devoted to the House Calendar and
the other seventy-odd pages consist of an index that is printed
from day to day, and is practically a reprint every day.
It is a waste of 30,000 pages of good white paper every day,
and it occurs to me that a more businesslike and sensible method
could be devised for printing the calendar. It Is absolutely un-
necessary to print this index of bills oftener than once a week.
The printing of those 70 pages every day is nothing but waste
and should be stopped. I made this suggestion to time Clerk of

the House some time ago, but he has not seen fit to make any
change. I hope those in charge of the printing of the calendar
will devise some method to stop it. The item, of course,.is not
so very large, so far as money is concerned, but I am opposed
to waste in any form, and the instance I have pointed out is a
conspicuous example of it, and it is right under the nose of
Congress.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, the calendar used to be
printed three times a week. I always thought myself that that
was a sufficient number, but the House at one time concluded
that It ought to have the calendar printed every day, and it has
been printed every day. Now, the most valuable part of the
calendar is the index.
Mr. BLACK. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. MANN of Illinois. Yes.
Mr. BLACK. It occurs to me that the index printed in the
calendars is practically identical with what is known as the
weekly or monthly compendium compiled under the direction of.
Mr. Loomis of the-House.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. Which I think is practically value-
less.
Mr. BLACK. One or the other ought to be discontinued; it
looks to me like an exact duplication. The House is free in
complaining about duplication in the Government departments.
Let us stop it in our own printing.
Mr. AIANN of Illinois. They are not a duplication at all.
Mr. BLACK. Does not the gentleman from Illinois admit that
they are substantially a duplication of each other?
Mr. MANN of Illinois. I will be frank with the gentleman
and say that I have at different times casually examined Air.
Loomis's publication. It is of no value, to me whatever and
no value in my office. The calendar is. The daily calendar is
carefully examined every day in my office. If it was only
published once a week I would get flong, as far as I am con-
cerned. An index to do any good must be up t( date. There
is where Members look to see the status of legislation. Every
day we are asked in letters, and so forth, concerning the status
of various pieces of legislation. If a bill has been reported to
the House or passed by the House the index in the calendar
gives the information. That is the way I acquire my informa-
tion; I do not know how others get theirs. I do not believe
in duplication of work. I think if we had a calendar printed
two or three times a week it would be sufficient.
Mr. MOORE of Virginia. May I ask the gentleman a qies-
tion?
Mr. -MANN of Illinois. Certainly.
Mr. MOORE of Virginia. In view of the great experience
of the gentleman and the great respect I have for his opinion,
I want-to ask him whether he thinks it would be worth while
to undertake some method of notifying Members a little in
advance of the business which is to be transacted the following
day ?
Mr. MANN of Illinois. It is not possible, any more than it
is possible in court. In court, they give notice of the cases
that will be called on a certain day, and yet frequently I have
had cases on call for three or four weeks without being reached.
Mr. MOORE of Virginia. I have found that in other legisla-
tive bodies-of course, the analogy may not be a strong one
between the procedure possible here'and that of other bodies-
that such a practice obtains. For instance, in the French
Assembly there is a notification given tile evening before of
business to be brought up at the next session, and so in Ger-
many, and so in a modified way in England.
In 1861 there was a commission appointed in England by the
House of Commons to revise the rules of that body, and on
that commission were such men as Disraeli, Palmerston, and
Bright. They brought in a report stressing it as something of
the greatest importance that the House should know in advance
the business to be transacted at a particular session, and then
adhere to the program. I have thought that something of that
kind might be devised here.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. I do not think it is possible, although
I am free to say that I am not caught by surprise at anything
that comes up. I think I can tell, as a rule, a day or three days
ahead what is coming up better than the men that bring it up.
Mr. MOORE of Virginia. May I say a word further, be-
cause I am extremuely anxious to get the genltleman's opinion?
I think in the extra session we acted on 21 matters under rules
which were brought in by the Committee on Rules. The mat-
ters referred to in those rules, with a single exception, were
taken up immediately on the adoption of the rules.
I do not see how anybody could have known in advance,
unless lie was in the confidence of the Rules Comlmittee or in
the confidence of the leaders of the majority wvlm are largely
responsible for the course of business iil the House, wlat was
coming up. It seems to me it might be understood that a matter

1920.

6877



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0396.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

to which a special rule pertains should not be taken up, except
in case of enmergency, until, say the day after the rule is adopted.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. The gentleman proposes a niethod of
1killing time. Take this case that we have to-day. Here is the
sunldry civil bill. The majority leader said the other day that
we would finish it last week* I did not think that we could
finish it before the end of this week. Both of us are mistaken.
It comes up to-day with 30 pages unread. It might have been
finished at 2 o'clock. Then what are you going to do, adjourn
or go to something else?
Mr. BLANTON. Go fishing.
Mr. CLARK of Missouri. Mr. Chairman, I would like to
have the gentleman's time extended 2 minutes.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Missouri asks unaini-
mous consent that the time of the gentleman from Illinois be
extended two minutes. Is there objection?
There was no objection.
Mr. CLARK of Missouri. Mr. Chairman, in the first place
I want to remark that the gentleman from Illinois owes it to
,the House to get up some day and make a full exposition of
how lie learns so much about the business of the House. I have
been industrious, but not as industrious as he has.
Now, as to the matter in controversy, why not have a bulletin
,board at the corner of the desk, like they have in churches.
Somewhere about the pulpit they have a board on which a
statement is made of the hymns that they are going to sing, in
ilarge letters, so that everybody in the congregation can see
what they are. I do not see why that could not be done here.
The Rules Committee ought to be compelled to give 24 hours'
notice every time it brings in a rule.
They bring it on the House suddenly, and the House does not
know a thing oil the face of the earth about -%-,hat is in the
rule-no one except the Rules Committee, and several of that
committee do not know it, for some of them do not attend the
meetings. One must go to the gentleman fron Kansas [Mr.
CAMPBELL] to find out when lie is going to'bring this rule up.
.Every day 25 or 30 men will come to me, or pass where I am
sitting and ask me what is going to come up to-morrow, .or when
a.certain thing is going to come up. I do not know, and there
is no way of finding out. I go over and ask Mr. MONDELL, and
,he does not know. I do not think there is any intentional effort
.to keep the House in a fog about what is coming up, but people
;ought to have fair notice because they are interested in some
bills and not interested in others.
Take tile" chicken-feed" business, as the gentleman from
• Illinois [Mr. MANN] terms it, which comes up on Unan'imous
Consent Calendar day. Half of the Members in the House do
not care three whoops about it, and they do not want to be
dragged over here and kept here. A few make a specialty of
it, as the gentleman from Illinois does. He knows what is
coming up on the calendar and what he is going to do about it.
He already has his amendments fixed, and he will get hold of a
fellow here and worry him nearly into insanity, and then finally
.state to him that if lie will accept his amendments, which he
already has typewritten, lie will not object to his bill. In order
to get the bill through in some shape, the man interested in it
.will accept. any amnendment on earth that the gentleman from
Illinois suggests.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. And they are always good ones.
Mr. CLARK of Missouri. Most of them are good ones. I
admit that. The records of this House for the last 10 years
will show that the gentleman has had more bills through and
more amendments put on bills than any 10 other men in the
House. He pursues that course, and he ought to get down here
and explain how lie does it, so that somebody else can have as
much information as he has, if that is possible, which I doubt.
ir. MANN of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, I do not ask five min-
utes to explain how I do it, but I do ask unanimous consent to
proceed for five minutes.
Time CHAIRMAN. Is there objection?
There was no objection.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. The gentleman from Virginia [Mr.
MOORE], one of the ablest Members of the House, suggests that
in other parliamentary bodies they are able to tell in advance
what is coming up for consideration. That is frequently done
In State legislatures, where bills are called on the first, second,
and third reading, and it is not difficult to determine. There is
no other Government in the world that has our form of irre-
sponsible executive government. It is not difficllt in other
parliamentary bodies, where the executive consists of members
of the legislative branch of the government, who have control
of legislation, so long as they have the confidence of the cham-
her and remain in power, to tell what is coming up. When they
lose power they go out of office. They determine what is com-
ing up, and it is not difficult to do so. In this body there are a
good many different committees, many. of them of practically

equal influence, and there is a constant strife between members
of committees in this House who have reported bills as to which
bill shall be taken up in preference to bills reported from other
committees. There is no call of the calendar in this House, and
if there were, we probably never would get through business.
The only calendar that is called is the Unanimous Consent
Calendar, and that is an entirely different thing from calling
the calendar as it is usually understood. We have our form
of government, with no centralization of authority in the legis-
lative branch, and there can not be as long as we have our pres-
ent form of Government, and there will always be this strife
of effort on the part of Members and committees to have con-
sidered first the bills in which they are interested. You never
can tell very far in advance how that will come out.
Whenever there has been any centralization of authority in
this House, there has been an outcry against it. Take the cry
of " Cannonism" in this House a few years ago. The former
Speaker of'this House, Mr. CANNON, had working under him,
not an autocratic organization at all, but the smoothest working
legislative machinery that has ever been known in this House.
There was not very much controversy. Men were given an op-
portunity. More legislation was enacted during that period
than during any other period of Congress, but there was an
outcry against it, as there will be shortly against the power of
the Committee on Rules, which constantly will seek to assume
additional control of the House. Whenever you get this cen-
tralization of authority, you get with it the fight against it,
because those who are not given preference are opposed to it.
There are a great many bills on the calendar now that gentle-
men want to have passed. Most of them ought never to be
passed, but the Members who are interested in them want to
get them considered. You can not tell very far in advance just
the minute when something will come up, but there is one thing
you can all do, if you will. You can all be prepared for the
bills in which you are interested whenever they do come up, and
that is not a difficult thing to do. That is what I do. [Laughter
and applause.]
The Clerk read as follows:
The appropriations made herein under the title "United States
Housing Corporation" shall be available for expenditure by the agency
or agencies of the public service having jurisdiction of the affairs of
the said corporation.
Mr. BLANTON. Mr. Chairman, I make the point of order
against .the paragraph beginning on line 23, page 161, and end-
ing on line 2, page 162, as being upauthorized by law.
Mr. GOOD. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman withhold the
point of order for a moment?
Mr. BLANTON. Yes.
Mr. GOOD. The bill has passed both Houses which termi-
nates the activities of the Housing Corporation. It transfers to
the Treasury Department the function of winding up this estab-
lishment. All that is intended here is to make the appropriation
and permit this appropriation to follow the transfer.
Mr. BLANTON. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. GOOD. Yes.
Mr. BLANTON. The gentleman admitted just a few mo-
ments ago that this Housing Corporation has in its possession
millions of dollars' worth of property and cash.
Mr. GOOD. Yes; but we have provided that that shall not
be available, and as the cash comes in it must be covered into
the Treasury of the United States.
Mr. BLANTON. But this particular paragraph provides that
the appropriations made herein under the title "United States
Housing Corporation" shall be available for expenditure by the
agency or agencies of the public service having jurisdiction of
the affairs of the said corporation.
Mr. GOOD. I will say to the gentleman that when we drew
this provision it was not known, and I do not personally know
now, just what the conferees have agreed to as to the agencies
that will be intrusted with winding up the affairs of this company.
Mr. BLANTON. When this bill becomes a law there will be
no need for this clause, will there?
Mr. GOOD. Yes; and that is just the reason it is put in.
Unless this provision is carried if we turn over to the Secre-
tary of the Treasury the duty of winding up the United States
Housing Corporation, he will have approximately $50,000,000
worth of collections to make and will have no funds to hire
clerks unless this appropriation follows it.
Mr. BLANTON. If this clause goes in, has not this Housing
Corporation authority under it to expend all--
Mr. GOOD. No; Congress has provided that the receipts
shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts,
and we must appropriate-
-   Mr. BLANTON. Then I withdraw the point of order.
Mr. LANGLEY. The gentleman from Iowa [Mr. GOOD] said
that the pending bill proposing to repeal the act creating the

16878

MAY 1.1,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0397.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RE CORD-HOUSE.

iousing Corporation provides that all these buildings through-.
,out thecountry shall be turned over -to the Treasury Department.
Mr. GOOD. -1 said activities.
Mr. LANGLEY. Well, activities. I desire to call the gentle-
.man's attention to  the fact thatthe House bill provided that the
.:Plaza buildings-the Government hotels-should be put -under
-the Public Buildings Commission. The Senate bill provides
that these buildings shall !be put under -the Treasury Depart-.
:ment along with the balance of these war buildings throughout
the country. I may add ithat we are to .have a conference with
-the Senate conferees at:3 o'clock this afternoon on that question
.and -on itwo or three other tquestions -of difference between the
.two Houses. Of course, I have ,no idea what agreement is
likely to be reached, because we have not yet had -a meeting .of
.the conferees and have discussed tie :subject -only informally
and briefly. If .the *Housing Corporation; as proposed by the
Senate amendment, is to be continued -until June 30-and in
view of the lapse of time I think now -that this should be done-
.and these Plaza buildings are transferred to the Treasury De-
*lartment, :as proposed by the Senate, and -continued for  an-
other.year, I take ,it that :the provisions which this sundry civil
;bill -contains for the .force -necessary to conduct that work -for
!the ensuing fiscal ,year is perhaps not in -excess -of what -the
work will require, although 'I have not gone into that in :great
detail. I understand that 'the gentleman from Iowa has had
.extensive ihearings on the -question and understands ithe whole
-situation, and 1 am willing vto trust his judgment ,on it, so far
as 'I am personally concerned on that point.
Mr. GOOD..I thank the gentleman for the ,correction.
The -CHIR.IMAN. The point of order is withdrawn, and the
Clerk will read.
The Clerk read as follows:
AWOMEN :IN INDUSTRY.
To enable :the :Secretary of Labor to continue the investigation touch-
log women in industry, including tpersonal services in the District of
-Columbia and in the ,field, $75;000.
Mr. BLANTON. Mr. Chairman, I make the.point of order
against the paragraph as 'being legislation on an appropriation
bill and unauthorized by law.
Mr. GOOD. Will the gentleman withhold that for .a moment?
Mr. BLANTON. I do.
Mr. GOOD. There was carried in the current appropriation
$40,000 for this service. This is one of the war-ime services
which was continued under the bill which -was reported .out last
.year.
Mr. BLANTON. But ithere-is no law authorizing this.
,Mr. GOOD. There is no.law authorizing it, but there is a bill
that has already passed .the 'House creating this -very -depart-
ment-
Mr. BLANTON. And hung-up-at the other end of theCapitol?
Mr. GOOD. Yes-; the 'Senate has not acted upon -it; but here
is a force already at work, and I am told they are doing good
.work. The committee went into this matter somewhat in  detail
in regard to 'the work that 'that bureau, headed 'by women,-at-
tempting to help solve'the;problems of women-
Mr. BLANTON. I will say to the -chairmau if lie -wants to
save time, he linows it is subject to the point of -order-
Mir. GOOD. I do.
Mr. BLANTON. And 'I am -going-to make it eventually, but if
lie wants to save time, -unless -he wants to make a -statement-
-Mr. 'GOOD. I was in hope -I might succeed in removing any
objection th& gentleman night have, :but if it is a useless 'thing,
of course-
'ir. BLANTON. I do -not think -the -gentleman can convince
me on this and the two-subsequent items. I -make the point-of
order.
The OHAIRMAN. The gentleman -makes the point -of order.
The Chair sustains 'the -point of order, and the'Clerk will 'read.
The 'Clerk read -as follows:
'DIVISION OF NEGRO ECONOMICS.
To enable 'the Secretary of'Labor to deal with ,the problems-of negro
workers and their: relations 'to "white employers and white workers, in-
cluding personal services in the 'District of Columbia and In the field,
$15,000.
Mr. BLANTON. Mr. Chairman, I maike the point of order
that this is new legislation and unauthorized by law.
Mr. BEE. Will tIe gentleman reserve -it -so that we can
.understand 'what 'is -meant-
Mr. BLANTON. 'I 'reserve it -for a nomment, :but .I can tell .the
gentleman what is meant by it. This department is ,sening
these ,negro organizers down into my colleague's State and
.States like Georgia, .Alabama, Mississippi, and the -Carolinas.
to .unfonize -negro 'farm workers, -union ize negro cooks in -your
'pantry and -itchen, to insist on 'their charging wages up ito
:$75, :$80, :$90, and .,even -,$100 a month and to ,,Nork .only '7 'and'
8 hours per day. This -is what 'is .known as ":negro economics."'
[Laughter.] I make  the  point of order, Mr. Chairman.

The CHAIRTMAN. Does the gentleman from Iowa desire to
be 'heard on the point of order?
Mr. GOOD. Mr. Chairman, I assumed that perhaps the same
1-uling that was made 'last year in the -employment service
would apply to this, but I want to say to .thegentleman from
'Texas, if I may digress .just 'a minute, that -there were some
very learned negro gentlemen who came before the committee,
men with college educations, 'who plead for this appropriation
,asked for by-the .Secretary.
Mr. BLA-NTON rose.
Mr. 'GOOD. Just a.minute. Now, I want to give their point
of view. The committee after weighing the matter decided to
give something. Now they felt this way. The ,Government has
a department -here :that has -a large, appropriation for the In-
dian. We recognize the Indian. Werecognize the .Indian Serv-
-ice in -the United States; and -we have a large bureau in the
Department ,of 'the Interior dealing with the 'Indian. 'Now the
colored men say, we are advised -by these men, and I will say
fo the gentleman I, know very little about the problem-
.Mr. BLANTON. 'Will :the gentleman ,let me give him some
information? .I :know 'something :about. it.
Mr. GOOD. That the colored man lwas 'not recognized, -and it
was felt that his efficiency could be improved, that his useful-
.ness could 'be :extended, that -his power to produce could be
made more generally effective if he -felt that he ,was some -part
iof ithe Government in some -way so 2far as the people of 111s
•own race -was concerned. Now, ithe 'Secretary -of 'Labor has
the :right, .it seems to me, to ,create in his -department a sort of
bureau of this kind. He :could 'employ these men, but he does
'not ,do it, and 1he comes to the Congress and -wants to ,know
whether it is the-will of the Congress thatbhe .should do it, -and
the committee felt that this amouft ,of money might 'well be
,expended for ithis race .and -felt that if 'they could ,extend their
,usefulness  and :their power and their .production 'by 'being -recog-
.nized, the committee 'was willing -to  grant that recognition.
MiA. .BLANTON. 'Will the gentleman yield?
'1r. -GOOD. 'I -will -yield.
'Mr..BLAINTON. Every single !negro in my'district, land there
:are Jots of them, is :my friend and will. go the limit for me, and
.I want to say to -the gentleman that -the :Secretary of Labor has
;already had for -two years employed in his department one
:iegro, whom lie calls Director :of Negro Economics, drawing .a
-salary of $4,380.
le ,calls him "'Doctor" Soand-so, -trying to formn a basis for
that kind of a  salary. And 'he has another.negro down there,
-whom he calls "Assistant Director of Negro :Economics," who
has been drawing a salary of $1,740 with the -bonus. I stated
-what-they 'have  been doing:in 'the iSouth ina moment ago and what
.they ihave 'been doing in the Southwest, ;and I -want to say that
they ihave been :stirring ,up strife and .animosity in ;this race -of
ipeople 'against 'the :best friends :they .lave on 'God's green .earth,
-and I am not in .favor of spending 'this money for 'thepurpose of
,stirring up strife.
Mr. BYRNS iof Tennessee. ir. Clairman, 'in addition -to
-what the ;gentleman fr'om 'Iowa ,[Mr. GooD] said, ' ithink it .fair
:to say :that those who appeared before the committee in support
-of this appropriation disdlaimed any such -object-or intention as
'the :gentleman from .Texas -[Mr. B.AXToN'j ihas ioutlined. They
based :their :claim -entirely :upon what the gentleman from Iowa
[Mr. GOOD] -has 'stated, :upon the :idea ;that 'if.some .recognition,
-whether it be great or:small, -was :given 'to -:the negro population
,of -the country, jit would 'promote a -better feeling of good will
on their part, :and -that this 'particular work .was devoted :to
stimulating the efficiency of the negro, in stimulating his desire
to save and :to purchase a 'home, ;and ,promoting his general wel-
fare. And-they put it upon the idea that -it was not-only ,a .serv-
ice 'to the :negro worker, but a -service to ;the white employer,
-because !it served to make the negro more 'efficient and -more
industrious and -more anxious to render-tie best service.
Mr. 'KNUTSON. Will the :gentleman from 'Tennessee yield?
Mr. BYRNS of Tennessee. I will.
Mr. KNUTSON. I would like to ask the ;gentleman from
:Tennessee if there is a corresponding bureau -for -white eco-
'nomics.?
:Mr. BYRNS of Tennessee. -Oh, 'the ,whole ,departnent is .de-
'voted.to 'that.
Mr. 'BLANTON. It is -,white .and negro.:togetier. :It is :not
.exclusively white.
Mr. 'BYRNS -of Tennessee. .t was ithe contention that, -al-
'though it was.a.small.appropriation,.it was a special recognition
.of the -negro ,worker.
Mr. BLANTON.     Will the gentleman -yield,?
,Mr. BYRNS of Tennesse. I .yield ,first ,-to-thegentlenan from
'Delaware.
Mr. LAYTON. Aside from -prejudices of all sorts, :tie ques-
tion of the millions of thatrace that are in our.country, 'the fact

1920.

-6879



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0398.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

that they are here and a part of our body politic seems to me
to be a good argument why we should do something to improve
their condition, because, as a matter of fact, from the stand-
point of economics they are a very Important factor even in the
gentlenman's own State.
Mr. BYRNS of Tennessee. The gentleman is correct. And
tbis appropriation Is very small and would simply provide for a
very limited force here in the District of Columbia.
Mr. BLANTON. The gentleman from Tennessee knows that
every dollar that is appropriated by this Government for eco-
nomics or under that head is appropriated for every colored
man just as well as for every white man.
Mr. BYRNS of Tennessee. That is true.
Mr. BLANTON. They~,are not segregated. And the gentle-
man will further agree with me, I believe, when I say that if you
keep these directors of negro economics out of Tennessee and
out of Texas and out of Mississippi, the Negro race will be a
great deal better off, and they'will have a great deal more
friendship exhibited to them by the white people.
Mr. BYRNS of Tennessee. That may be entirely true, but
I do not think the record will sustain the gentleman in his con-
tention that any such disturbance as he refers to in Texas is
brought about by this service.
Mr. BEE. There is nothing in Texas along the line the
gentleman from Texas [Mr. BLANTrON] has referred to, but there
is the disturbance caused by bringing in these men from New
York and elsewhere, to teach different doctrines and who are
not under the department of economics at all. Nothigg of the
former kind has happened in my district.
Mr. BLANTON. Oh, yes. I can show the gentleman articles
from one of the Denison papers and letters from Texas that
set forth that state of affairs exactly..
Mr. GOOD. Mr. Chairman, I think these three provisions,
commencing on line 8, page 162, ending with line 9 on page 163,
fall within the same class concerning which the House, as I
recall, has on former occasions had a decision. The first ruling
was on the provision providing for the Employment Service,
and the ruling was made by the then presiding Chairman of the
committee, the gentleman from Tennessee [Mlr. GARRETTj], in
which he held that the Employment Service was not.within the
contemplation of the provisions of the act creating the depart-
ment. Subsequently the committee followed the ruling with
regard to that when the bill was again considered. I have not
examined closely into that ruling. The House having twice
acted upon the matter, I am not inclined to urge the reversal
of that ruling, especially in view of the matter that provision
can be made without it.
Mr. MANN of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, the present Chairman
a moment ago overruled the decision of a former Chairman at
this session concerning the Holman rule, and it may be that the
present Chairman might have a very different opinion concern-
ing the proposition involved here from that of the Chairman who
ruled upon the subject before. The general language of the law
creating the Department of Labor and defining in a way, at
least, the purpose of the department, Is sufficiently broad in
its very comprehensive terms to include all these items in the
bill and a thousand more. When the matter was up on the
question of the ruling in reference to the Employment Bureau
before, it was the ruling of the Chair, practically, at least,
that this general language in the beginning of the law creating
the department was not a stifficient foundation upon which tc
predicate by an appropriation act the creation of new divisions
or bureaus in the Department of Labor not otherwise provided
for by legislation. 4nd it was a close question. I am not going
to argue it with the Chair whether it ought to be ruled one way
or the other, but if the Chair happens to be familiar  Wlth the
proposition, happens to entei'tain a different view with reference
to the organic act of the department, I think it is perfectly
proper for the Chair to express that view and follow it.
Mr. BLANTON. Mr. Chairman, will the Chair hear on
word further from me?
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair will hear the gentleman.
Mr. BLANTON. I call the attention of the Chair to the rul
that has been expressed by the Speaker of the House on variou
occasions, that where a ruling has been made in the committee
unless there is some very great and good reason why that rub
should be changed, the Speaker should follow it.in the House
This precedent, made by Chairman GARRETT, which has beet
cited by the Chairman of this committee, has been followed
sustaining this point of order to just such items made on tw
different occasions in this Congress in the committee, th
Speaker upholding it after we got back into the House. I think
under the circumstances,. this Chairman not. having any ver:
great reason' for changing the rule twice, expressed by th
Committee of the Whole aitd twice followed by the House wil
not see fit to change it at this time.

The CHAIRMAN. The Chair is ready to rule. The provision
*of law creating the Department of Labor, and bringing within.
the Department of Labor the activities of -the Government;
which previously affected the relations between employers and
employees particularly, and labor in general, are very broad.
If the provision now under consideration is construed in such
a way as to authorize the creation of a new bureau in the de-
partmnent, the Chair is of the opinion that the paragraph is not:
in order. The Chair thinks the paragraph is susceptible of this
construction.  The Chair is .uclined to think that the lan-
guage of the paragraplr under consideration goes somewhat
beyond the authority which is granted In the act creating the
Department of Labor; and in view of the further fact that the
matter has been held not to be in order, as the Chair under-
stands, upon previous occasions, the Chair feels constrained to
sustain the point of order. The Clerk will read:
The Clerk read as follows:
EMPLOYIENT SERVICE.
To enable the Secretary of Labor to foster, promote, to develop the
welfare of the wage earners of the United States, to improve their
working conditions, to advance their opportunities for profitable em-
ployment by maintaining a national system of employment offices in
the several States and political subdivisions thereof, and to coordinate
the public employment offices throughout the country by furnishing
and publishing Information as to opportunities for employment, and
by maintaining a system for clearing labor between the several States,
including personal services in the District of Columbia and elsewhere,
and for their actual necessary traveling expenses while absent from
their official station together with their per dIem in lieu of subsistence,
when allowed pursuant to section 13 of the sundry civil appropriation
act approved August 1, 1914, supplies and equipment, telegraph and
telephone service, and printing and binding, $225,000.
Mr. BLANTON. Mr. Chairman, I make a point of order
against the paragraph. It is new legislation upon an appropria-
tion bill, and unauthorized by law.
The CHAIRMAN. For the reason given in the preceding
decision of the Chair, the Chair sustains the point of order.
Mr. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike out the last word.
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair will state to the gentleman
from Texas that, the paragraph having been stricken out, there
is nothing upon which to base his pro forum    amendment. The
Clerk will read.
The Clerk read as follows:
LEGISLATIVE.
Statement of appropriations :-For preparation, under the direction
of the Committees on Appropridtions of the Senate and tiouse of Itepre-
sentatives, of the statements for the second session of the Sixty-sixth
Congress, showing appropriations made. new offices created, offices the
salaries of which have been omitted, increased, or reduced, in definite
appropriations, and contracts authorized, together with a chronological
history of the regular appropriation bills, as required by law, $4,000,
to be paid to the persons designated by the chairmen of said committees
to do the work.
Mr. BLACK. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike out the last word.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from             Texas ioves to
