formation and judgment and to have set aside the persons who had been named
by the representatives of the respective governments, both of which aoi iscet in
Vhe appoint ent made by the Russian minister, and proceeded with the btoesi before
(Ad consmission now lhniefnlly onstituted,
Venezuela acquiesced, the United States acquiesced in this appoint-
ment of umpire, everybody acquiesced mitil four or five years ago,
when an attorney of Venezuela thougit it proper to raise a question
of doubt as to the appointment of Juan X. Machado, jr., a maq who
was educated in your city, [addressing Mr. MCLANE, of Maryland,]
married in your city a lady of high character and social position, and
although he may be a " cotton-weaver" in Caracas, as, the gentle-
man from Illinois states, he is a man of the very highest character
and standing in his own country.
We have seen what Secretary Fish says about Juan N. Machado,
jr. Now, what does Seth Driggs swear to--the person toward whom
the gentleman from lllinois is so charitably disposed as to be willing
to deprive him of the money justly due from Veneznela4       He says:
Mr. Juan Machado was a native of Caracas and had a yarn-mill there. He was
about thirty years old at that time.
The Venezuelan ionsul here made no objection to him until after those dopesi
tions were made, and then the Government complained and said that he was not a
competent person for umpire.
What does Castro, a Venezuelan, swear before a committee of this
House:
It has been stated that Mr. Ribas, the Venezuelan chargi d'affairos, agreed to the
appointment. Mr. Ribs, when I was presenting this claim on the part of the Von-
euelan governmcnt, expressed great regret for what he had done, because he was
convinced that the appointment was not, good one; bit lio said that th ciroiui
stance of the man being a native of Venezuela appeared to hm favorable for his
government, and that, fearing that in case he was not accepted a different man
might be appointed who would be adverse to the interests of the Government, he
thought it best to accept the name of Machado.

Castro know what he was about; Ribas knew what he was about.
But the gentleman from Springfield, Illinois, thinks they did not
understand their business.
And that is not all, Mr. Speaker. Juan N. Machado, jr., was recog-
nized by Villafane, the Venezuelan commissioner. On all these mat-
ters on which there was a difference of opinion between the two com-
missioners such difference was referred to the umpire, Juan N. Ma-
chado, jr. And now, with all this testimony against him, he comes
here this morning and pretends that the appointment of the umpire
was a great fraud.
This is the manner in which he has met the several charges I made
against him, and I leave it to the House and the country to judge
whether his effort has not been in all respects a complete evasion and
his answers a complete failure.
The gentleman from Illinois exhibits the true animns which has
characterized his course throughout this entire transaction by going
out of his way and quoting a section of the statute which he alleges.
I have violated. His conduct and his legal opinion are on a par with
each other-conduct unworthy of any honorable man, and an opinion
of which the merest tyro in the law would he ashamed. To show
that I am justified in using this language, let me examine briefly the
facts and the law he has quoted.
My testimony before the committee shows that after the 4th of
March, 1871, when I was not a member of Congress, I accepted an
employment from Stilwell & Talmage to act as their attorney in pro-
curing a distribution by the Secretary of State of money which had
been paid by Venezuela, and also the passage of an act by the Forty-
second Congress declaring the validity of the awards of the mixed
commission. I was not a member of that Congress. InOctober,1872,
I was elected to the Forty-third Congress, and my term of service
commenced on the 4th of March, 1873. My engagement and my serv-
ices as such attorney terminated on the 25th of February, 1873, before
the commencement of the Forty-third Congress.
The gentleman from Maryland, [Mr. McLANE,] whose ability ds a
lawyer is recognized by all of us, has remarked:
If the gentleman from Indiana did accept a retainer as counsel, and did, after
he was elected, make a professional engagement looking to the onactmentof a law
by the Congress Io which he was elected, who doubts that ho violated the law ?
That is undoubtedly a correct interpretation, but does not apply to
the facts in this ease, because I did not make a professional engage-
meat looking to the enactment of a law by the Congress to which I
wqs elected. On the contrary, my engagement had fully terminated
before the commencement of the Congress to which I had then been
elected, and that Congress never had this subject before it in any
shape or form.
I now ask the attention especially of the lawyers of tile House to
this portion of my remarks. It is pretended that I violated the sec-
ond part of said statute, (section 1781, U. S. R.,) which reads:
And every member of Congress who, directly or indirectly, takes, receives or
agrees to receiveanymoney, property, orothervluableeonsideratoiwhatever alter
his election as such member, for his attention to, services, action, vote, or deeion
on any question, matter, cause, or proceeding which may then be pending, or may
by law or under the Constitution be brought before him in his official tapacity, or
in.his place as such member of Congress, shall be deemed guiltyof a inhidomeanor,
&.
It is as evident as unmistakable words can make it that to bring
an engagement within the prohibition of this act it must be an en-
gagement about a matter either then pending before him in his ca-
pacity as a member of Congress or one which by law or the Consti-
tution may be brought before him.
My engagement was not in reference to any matter pending before
me during my service, but was terminated before such service com-
menced On the other hand, was my engagement about a matter
which by provision of some law or of the Constitution must or might
come or be brought before me as such member of Congress ? Most
assuredly it was not such an engagement.
iThat clause of the act prohibits one elected to Congress from tak-
ig an employment touching a matter which by virtue of some ex-
isting law or the Constitution may be brought before him as such
member. In illustration: it would prohibit a Senator-elect from
taking an employment to secure the ratification or rejection of a treaty
which was pending for confirmation in the Senate at the time of his
election, because by virtue of his election he may be called to act
upon it officially in his capacity as Senator. Again, it would prohibit
a member-elect to the House from taking an engagement as attorney
in a contested election to be determined by the Congress to which he
was elected, because under the Constitution he as such member is
one of the judges to decide the contest.
That section would not prohibit a member-elect from taking an em-
ployment to obtain an extension of a patent before the Commissioner
of Patents, for although the question of such an extension might be
brought before Congress, it would not be thus brought'by virtue of
any law or any provisiom of the Constitution. Again, it does not
prohibit a member-elect from appearing before the Commissioner of
Publi c Lands in reference to a title to some real estate, although legis-
lation in reference to such title might afterward be brought before
Congress, yet it would not thus be brought by virtue of any law or
the Constitution.
So in reference to this act establishing the validity of these awards,
if it had failed to pass in the Forty-second Congress, it might have
been brought before the Forty-third Congress, of which I was a mem-

3336

MAY 13,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0344.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

ber; but it could not have thus been brought by virtue of any law
or the Constitution. It could only have been brought before that
Congress as new and original legislation.
The section means, and it means nothing else, that a member-elect
shall not be employed ija any matter which a specific law or provis-
ion of the Constitution notifies him may or must come before him in
his official capacity, and for that reason it is made unlawful for him
to accept such employment. Any other construction is utterly un-
tenable; any other construction would compel an attorney who is
elected to Congress to abandon all his professional engagements
within the vast domain of Federal legislation, such as questions con.
nected with banking, with customs, with internal revenue, with pat-
ents, with public lands, with Indian affairs, because Congress may
some time during his service be called upon to legislate upon these
or kindred subjects. Was my engagementin this the case of a mem-
ber of Congress attending to a matter pending before him in his offi-
cial capacity ?
Mr. SPRINGER. Take the other alternative.
Mr. ORTH. I will take all the alternatives; yes, sir, some proba-
bly, before we get through this matter, which the gentleman will
not like very much.
Mr. SPRINGER. All right; bring them out.
Mr. ORTH. Stch logic is too absurd for serious consideration. Its
use to-day forms but another chapter in the partisan purposes and
conduct of that gentleman. He has now learned, if he did not know
it before, that when attacks are made they will be repelled. He has
nowlearned, if he did not know it before, that there is as much truth
as poetry in the lines of one of England's immortal bards:
And if we do but watch the hour,
There never yet was human power
Which could evade, if nnforgiven,
The patient search and vigil long
Of him who treasures up a wrong.
. Mr. SPRINGER. There is nothing to which I desire to reply, and
I will not ask the indulgence of the House for any remarks, but will
leave the country to construe the speech as it should be construed.
In pursuance of the promise which I made to the House, I will
move the reference of the document from the State Departnent, to
which I referred, to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and ask that
it be printed.
There was no objection, and it was so ordered.
ORDER OF BtUSINESS.
Mr. HARRIS, of Virginia. I move to dispense with the morning
hour, with a view of going on with the consideration of the pending
appropriation bill in the Committee of the Whole. I make this mo-
tion because the chairman of the Committee on Appropriations [Mr.
ATirins] is out of the Hall, but I understand that he will be here in
a moment.
The motion was agreed to, two-thirds voting in favor thereof.
LEGISLATIVE, EXECUTIVE, AND JUDICIAL APPROPRIATION BILL.
Mr. ATKINS. I move that the House now resolve itself into Com-
mittee of the Whole for the purpose of proceeding with the consid-
eration of the legislative, executive, and judicial appropriation bill.
The motion was agreed to.
The House accordingly resolved itself into Committee of the Whole,
(Mr. Cox in the chair,) and resumed the consideration of the bill (H.
R. No. 6185) making appropriations for the legislative, executive, and
judicial expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending Juno
30, 1881, and for other purposes.
The pending paragraph of the bill was the following:
For detecting, and bringing to trial and punishment, -sons guilty of violating
the internal-revenue laws, or accessory to the same, including payments for infer-
mation and detection, $75,000; and the Commissioner of Internal Rtevenue shall
make a detailed statement to Congress once in each year as to how ho has expended
this sum.
The pending amendment was one offered by Mr. HOOKER, to strike
ont the words "including payments for information and detection,"
and also to strike out "$75,000" and insert " $50,000 ;" so that the par-
agraph would read:
For detecting, and bringing to trial and punishment, persons guilty of violating
the internal-revenno laws, or accessory to the same, $50,000; and the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue shall make a detailed statement to Congress once in each year
as to how he has expended this sum.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from North Carolina [Mr. DAVIS]
is entitled to the floor.
Mr. DAVIS, of North Carolina. I do not know any branch of the
public service that needs examination more than this of the internal
revenue. Its administration in some sections of the country has been
fraught with fraud and corruption. It has been used in a large de-
gree for political purposes. During the period when gentlemen on
the other side of the House controlled the appropriations of this coun-
try, I do not hesitate to say that the expenditures of collecting the
internal revenue, and the amount collected, show that there must
have been something more than the mere ordinary administration of
that department of the Government, in the interest of the public. I
have compiled from official sources since this debate began a state-
ment which will show facts utterly inconsistent with afair and im-
partial administration of this department of the Goversiment,
The following is a comparison of the expenditures of public money
on account of civil and miscellaneous appropriations during the pros-

idential-election years of 1864-'65,186SV69, and 1872-)73, and the years
next prior and next subsequent to each of said election years; show-
ing invariably an increase of expenditures in each fiscal year of the
presidential election over the years immediately prior thereto and
over the years immediately subsequent thereto:
Fiscal year 1863-'64 (before election year) ............................. 27, 572,216
Fiscal year 1864-'65  election year) ....................................  42,989,383
Fiscal year 1865- 66 (after election  year) .............................  40 613,114
Fiscal year 1867-'68 (before election year) .............................  53, 010,00
Fiscal year 1868-'69 (election year) ....................................  56,474. 00
Fiscal year 1869-'70 (after election  year ..............................  53,237 , 000
Fiscal year 1871-'72 (before election year) ............................  60, 481,757
Fiscal year 1872-'73 (election year) ....................................  73,328,110
Fiscal year 1873-'74 (after election year) ..............................  9641,593
Thus showing increased expenses in the election year of 1864-'65
over 1863-164. of $15,417,167 ; in election year of 1868-'69 over 1867-68,
of $3,464,000 ; in election year of 1872-173 over 1871-'72, of $12,343,358;
in election year of 1864-'65 over 1866-'67, of $2,376,269; in election
year of 1868-69 over 1869-170, of $3,273,000; in election year of 1872-'73
over 1873-'74, of $3,686,517.
A reference to the amounts of internal revenue collected during the
presidential years as compared with the amounts collected in the
fiscal years preceding and following will show that the amount col-
lected during the presidential years was less by millions than the
amount collected in the years preceding and following.
Internal revenue collected for fiscalyear 1867-'68, (before election,)
$191,087,589; year 1868-'69, (presidential year,) $158,356,460; year
1869J70, (after election,) $184,899,756; thus showing that the amount
collected during the presidential year was $32,731,129 less than the
year before, and $26,543,296 less than the year following the election.
The amount collected during the fiscal year of 1871-'72, prior to the
election, was $130,642,177, and the amount collected during the pres-
idential year of 1872-'73, was $113,729,314, thus showing that the
amount collected during the presidential year was $16,912,863 less
than the year before.
Now, why was this?   Was it the result of any accident? No, sir;
it was because these officials in many States of the Union were en-
gaged in using their positions for political purposes. I think the
facts will show that this must have been the reason.
For instance, why should the civil and miscellaneous expenses of
the Government, which includes the collection of internal revenue,
cost millions more the year of a presidential election than for the
year before or the year following?  And why should the amount of
revenue collected during the presidential years be less by millions
than during the yeard before or the years after?
A great deal has been said about gentlemen on this side of the
House being sensitive on this subject, and it is alleged that it is be-
cause their constituents had been engaged in violating the revenue
laws. No one on this side approves violations of the law, but the
remedy is not in spies and detectives. We have had some of these
detectives in my State, and though they were employed nominally to
detect crime, they were oftentimes the greatest, and sometimes the
only, criminals connected with the matters which it was said they
were employed to expose. And on their testimony men have been
bound over to the Federal court on false or frivolous charges, and on
the hearing, the judge has instructed the grand jury not to find bills.
of indictment on the testimony of those men.
Whenever the Government fnds it necessary in the execution of its
laws to employ men of bad character, to employ knaves as many of
these ihen unquestionably are, it is time that we should try and see
where the evil is. We shall find it in the bad administration of un-
just and unequal laws, which do not command the approval of pub-
lhe sentiment. Whenever it becomes necessary to enforce the civil
law through the medium of spies and detectives, then, I say, you may
bid farewell to the freedom of this country, and this Republic will go
down as other republics before it have gone, into despotism, through
corruption.
[Here the hammer fell.)
Mr. BAKER. Mr. Chairman, the mournful view which the gentle-
man from North Carolina [Mr. DAVIS] takes of the future of this
country would be'calculated perhaps to create alarm if it came from
some other direction than the old "tar-heel State." All I desire to
say in reference to the charge made here that the money of this
country during the years indicated by him has been diverted from
the legitimate purposes for which it was appropriated to political
purposes is simply this: the gentleman deserves a patent for diseov4
;ring fifteen years after the fact what eighty-four democratic smell-
ing committees of this House have hitherto failed to discover. With
this statement I do not desire to say anything further on that point.
Mr. Chairman, whenever the question of the honest enforcement of
the revenue laws in reference to whisky comes up a raid is always
made by sympathizers with moonshiners and evaders of the revenue
law upon that law for the purpose of striking down its honest and
efficient administration. In reference to this item, Mr. Chairman, the
sum of $75,000 is the amount appropriated last year. One hundred
thousand dollars was recommended as the appropriation for the pres-
ent year by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, who assured our
committee that it was important he should have this amount instead
of $75,000 as named in the bill, or $50,000 as proposed in the amend-
ment of the gentleman from Mississippl.
For one, I feel that if there is a desire on the part of this House to-

1880.

3337



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0345.txt

CONGRESSIONAL IRECORD-IHOUSE.

have free whisky, not only here but everywhere, ther ought to be an
honest amendment offered for the purpose of making it free. I insist
that so long as we undertake to collect the revenues of the country
it is unfair, it is unjust, to undertake to undermine, little by little,
the efficiency of this Department, and strike at that portion of it which
is absolutely indispensable to the collection of the revenue.
Gentlemen talk as though there were something dishonest or disrep-
utable in enforcing the law. Irish history is appealed to. Gentlemen
wax eloquent and grow lod in denunciation of spies and informers.
Yet in behalf of whom is this clamor raised ? It is raisedin behalf of
men who are engaged in the dishonest etfort to evade the revenue
laws of the country. When honest men come forward and complain
it will be time that we should give attention to the matter. When
my friend shows that a dollar of this money has been expended for
the purpose of detecting others than those whoought to be detected,
it will be time for this House to halt. -In my experience I never knew
the time when a criminal could be found without searching.for him ;
and I never know a law that could be enforced unless there was pro-
vision made and money afforded for the purpose of searching out
-criminals and bringing them to justice. It is so in every Department;
and it must be so in this. The only question as a business question
i 3 whether an appropriation of $75,000 for these purposes is too large.
I know from investigation of this subject that this appropriation in-
stead of being diminished ought to be increased; that $100,000 or
$150,000 could be advantageously expended in this direction, and that
as the result of such expenditure large additions could be made to
the revenue of the country. Every dollar expended in putting down
moonsbhiners, in bringing to justice the bloody-handed men who
slaughter the revenue officers of the country, is a dollar wisely ex-
pended; and whoever would seek to cripplq that baud of men who
take their lives in their hands for the purpose of repressing lawless-
ness, detecting crime, and bringing criminals to justice, offers, it
seems to me, a temptation and an open bid to the violaters of the law.
[Here the hammer fell.]
Mr. McKENZIE obtained the floor and yielded his time to Mr.
IAVIS, of North Carolina.
Ar. DAVIS, of North Carolina. I am very much obliged to my
friend from Kentucky.
Mr. IURROWS. I rise to a parliamentary inquiry. Is not debate
exhausted on this amendment?
The CHAIRMAN. Debate is exhausted.
Mr. BURROWS. I object to farther debate.
Mr. McKENZIE. I move to amend the amendment by striking out
the last word.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from North Carolina will pro-
ceed.
Mr. DAVIS, of North Carolina. The gentleman from Indiana [Mr.
Bxut] says that according to his observation the amount of this ap-
propriation might be much larger. I have no doubt that a much larger
sum might be spent; it might be run up to $100,000 or to $1,000,000, or
to $10,000,000. But that is not the question. This is a proposition
to pay detectives and informers. If the grand juries and the ordi-
nary law-officers of the country are not sufficient to point out offend-
ers and bring violators of the law to justice, I say for one, never by
my vote shall one dollar be paid to a detective or an informer. It
is o~ly to the portion relating to detectives and informers that my
remarks apply.
Mr. Chairman, there has been nothing more corrupting, nothing
more demoralizing, nothing that has gone deeper in sapping and un-
dermining the foundations of this Government, than this System of
internal revenue. The great thieves go unwhipped of justice; but
a little offender in some mountain gorge is seized and carried off to
Albany or some of or prison, while large thieves, not only in matters
of revenue, but o . other things, gm, free. Over here in the State of
Pcnnsylvania suume of the gentimnan's political friends have been
gailty-of what? They have been charged with corruptly soliciting
the votes of legislators to procure the passage of a bill appropriating
$4,000,000 for property destroyed by the Pittsburgh rioters; claims
which, by the way, were settled afterward at one million and a half
oi dollars or thereabout. These men, after being convicted or plead-
ing guilty, and after being sentenced to the penitentiary, were par-
doned by the governor upon the recommendation of the board of par-
dons of that State; and it is said publicly in the papers that this
was because they said to leading men of their party, "Unless you let
us out, many of you must come in." All I have to say is, that if our-
friends on the other side desire to bring criminals to jdstice let them
begin high. Let them begin with those who were pardoned ont of
the penitentiary after being convicted of frands on the revenue at
Saint Louis. One or two of these big thieves will defraud the Gov-
erument out of more money in one month than all the blockaders in
North Carolina together in one year; but these men can contribute to
the party fund and that secures immunity.
Such eminent republican politicians as W. H. Kemble, lately a mem-
br of the national republican committee for the State of Pemisyl-
Vuia, who has made memorable that motto of political thieves, "ad-
dition, division, and silence," with his associates, Petroff, Rumberger,
Salter, and Crawford, can, when convicted of the greatest crimes-
crimes which strike at the foundation of our Government-dud no
trouble in keeping out of the penitentiary, because they have money
,with which to help the party, and because, as it is publicly alleged in

the press of the country, they know the secrets of their political asso -
elates, who dare not permit them to go to the penitentiary.
When our friends on the other side speak of the thousands of moon-
shiners and violators of the law in a few States of this Union, they
should remember that the frauds in Saint Louis alone exceeded in
amount in one year all those perpetrated by' all the moonshiners
together. Let them condemn these eminent violators of the law. I
will vote all the money necessary for the courta, the juries, and all
public officers in the administration of the laws, but I will never vote
one dollar to pay spies and detectives, instruments unknown in the
civil administration of our fathers, names in many instances syno-
nyms for thieves and knaves.
(Here the hammer fell.]
Mr. ATKINS. Mr. Chairman, I regret that any partisan remarks
have been made on this appropriation bill. I do not think that an
appropriation bill is the proper place to arouse political prejudice.
I think we should discuss this bill in regard to its business merits
and in regard to what is absolutely necessary to enforce the laws
which are on the statute-books.
Now, sir, if the Internal-Revenue Bureau has been guilty of mal-
practice-and I am not prepared to say it has not, nor am I its special
defender; but if it has been guilty of malpractice there is a way of
reaching it, and it should be reached. If the head of that bureau has
used the public funds for the purpose of oppressing one portion of
the people, or indeed any single individual, wrongfully, there is a
way to reachthat officer, and it should be done; but it should not be
done at the sacrifice of the collection of the revenues of the country.
Whether wisely or unwisely, Mr. Chairman, laws have been en-
acted levying a tax on whisky, and on manufactured tobacco, and
upon other articles. It is necessary to enforce those laws, and ever
since their existence this very clause in this appropriation bill has
been enacted.
A certain sum of money has been appropriated annually for the
purpose of detecting violators of the internal-revenue laws. It has
been applied to that particular purpose. The question is, will gen-
tlemen who are opposed to this section or this paragraph in the bill
take the ground that no appropriation at all should be made for that
purpose? If I understand the purport of the argument of the gentle-
man from North Carolina it goes to the effect of wiping out the en-
tire appropriation.
We appropriated last year the very self-same, identical amount we
propose to appropriate this year, and for the same identical object.
There is not the crossing of a t or the dotting of an i'a difference in
the object or the amount of last year's appropriation and that pro-
posed by this bill.
Then, if we intend to execute the laws, the maeans ought to be given
to the officers of the country to do so. If the laws are wrong, repeal
them. If the judgment of the House is prepared to say that the laws
are wrong, they should provide for their repeal. . I am not for one
prepared to say that I advocate the present system of taxation, for I
do not; but it is not proper on an appropriation bill to attempt to
change those laws. [Applause on the republican side.] If you with-
hold the necessary means for the enforcement of those laws in the
passing of your appropriation bills, you have effectually nullified
those laws. That is the whole of it, so far as that is concerned, and
gentlemen cannot escape the proposition.
But, Mr. Chairman, there has been in the last nine months over
$10,684,000 of internal revenue collected more than for the nine cor-
responding months of the last fiscal year. I want to say that there
have been in certain districts where illicit distilling has prevailed to
the greatest extent during the last two years by the encouragement
given by the Internal Revenue Bureau two hundred and seventy-two
new registered distilleries. There i:re to-day three times as many
registered distilleries in these same ,l istricts as there w.-re two years
ago. That has been brought about by suppressing illuit distilling.
I do not suppose there is a gentleman on this floor who is prepared
to sayhe desires to promote by any act orword of his illicit distilling.
I know that no member professes to do any such thing; but I want to
say if- insufficient appropriations are made to protect the internal-
revenue laws, there is injustice done to the registered and legal dis-
tilleries of the country. Shall we by any action of ours so promote
illicit distilling as to break down thereby the legal distilleries of the
country and defraud the Government of its legitimate revenues?
Those are the questions to which gentlemen of the House should ad-
dress themselves. The Government was defrauded in 1876 of over
'$4,000,000 of revenue by illicit distillers.
I say that the gentleman from Mississippi himself, who, I believe,
has made two or three speeches on this proposition, concedes the lan-
guage he proposes to strike out is mere surplusage. If, then, it is
mere surpiusage, there is no principle involved in it. That is what
the gentleman concedes; and I repeat and reiterate what he has said,
that the language he proposes to strike out is mere surplusage. In
the first part of the paragraph it provides for "detecting and bring-
ing to trial." Afterward the language "including payment for detec-
tion and information" is a mere repetition.
[Hre the hammer fell.]
Mr. CABELL took the floor.
Mr. BURROWS. Is not the debate exhausted?
The CHAIRMAN. Debate is exhausted on the formal amendment.
Mr. CABELL. The gentleman withdraws it, and I renewit.

3338

MAY 13,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0346.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

Mr. BURROWS. I object to its withdrawal.
The CHAIRMAN. The question, then, will have to be taken on the
amendment.
Mr. ATKINS. What has become of the amendment of the gentle-
man from Mississippi?
The CHAIRMAN. It is still pending. The question now is on the
amendment to that amendment.
The amendment to the amendment was rejected.
Mr. CABELL, I move to strike out the last two words. I favor
the amendment of the gentleman from Mississippi. It is not my
purpose by anything lbat I may say or do to cripple the force and
effect of the revenue laws or to retard their execution. I do wish,
however, to see those laws executed in the proper manner and through
the proper instrumentalities. It is a question of economy as well as
of justice that we have here to consider; ought we to appropriate
such a large sum of money as that here designated for the purpose and
business or which it is asked ? If my memory serves me some three
years ago when the revenue laws and regulations bad not arrived at
that degree of perfection which is now claimed for them about $50,000
was voted for the purposes for which we are asked to appropriate
$75,000. The first-named sum I doubt not was considered sufficient
then to conduct this branch of the public business. It was only, if
I am correct in my recollection, as far back as 1878 that we find the
amount increased to $75, 00.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue claims that he has so per-
fecoed the law, that he has brought his regulations so well to bear
upon revenue subjects and the business of his department, that every-
thing goes along smoothly and well; that he loses less and collects
more revenue than was ever collected before, and that almost every-
thing moves on with reasonable accuracy and precision in his depart-
ment. What need, therefore, for this large appropriation? I think
that the appropriation of $75,000"for the support and encouragement
of detectives and informers is unnecessary and improper. We are
called upon to follow the bad precedent established two or three years
ago. If we cannot omit the appropriation I would wish to see it re-
duced. It is contrary to the spirit and genius of our institutions to
maintain a horde of spies and informers whose vocation it is to dog
the footsteps and pry into the business of the citizen, It adds noth-
ing to the dignity of our Government or the character of our institu-
tions to maintain at the public expense a large number of detectives,
many of whom experience has shown provoke, if they do not invite,
violations of the law. The evil should be checked, if we cannot care it.
But the gentleman from Tennessee [Mr. ATKINS] was correct when
he said the great defect was in the revenue laws. The trouble was
and is in the law. It lies deeper than anything we have presented
here. The trouble, the great trouble, consists in the weight of the
revenue tax upon liquors and other subjects.
If the rate of taxation was reduced we would have no need of an
army of spies and informers. The people won1tpay the reduced tax
more cheerfully, production would be encouraged, the incentive to
fraud would be greatly lessened, and the result would be an increase
of revenue to the Government. If you will look back a few months
you will find that when we had under consideration the proposition
to reduce the tobacco tax, it was claimed on the part of the Treasury
Department that such action would decrease the revenue by nine
or ten millions of dollars. Yet when we reduced the tax to the ex-
tent of eight cents per pound, one-third of the old rate, the result
was, there was not only no loss of revenue to the Government, but, as
I am informed, an actual gain. I have not the figures at my com-
mand just now, but I am informed, and gentlemen around remind me
that so far from working a diminution of receipts the reduction of
the tax has induced an increase of revenue to the extent of a million
dollars or more in excess of that obtained under the old law.
Mr. HOOKER. If the gentleman will allow me to interrupt him,
the increase has been largely in excess, as shown by the morning
papers.
Mr. CABELL. I have no doubt of it; and if that is a fact, if it be
true, as I believe it is, that an increase of revenue has followed the
reduction of the tax upon tobacco, why should the same effects not
follow in regard to spirits I The same results will follow, Mr. Chair-
man, if the tax upon distilled spirits should be wisely reduced. The
tax bears so heavily upon poor men and men of moderate means that
they cannot engage in the business, just as was the case with tobacco,
and the whole field is left to men of wealth or fraudulent methods.
Reduce the tax and give all persons a fair and equal chance; reduce
the tax and lessen the efforts to avoid its payment. Do this and the
Government will get what belongs to it without the aid of so many
paid employs enforcing their doubtful system of coercion.
[Here the hammer fell.]
Mr. REED. Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that it is in vain for gen-
tlemen to attempt to cover up the issue which is before us. This is a
question whether we will enforce our laws and collect the revenues
as heretofore, and nothing else. One gentleman on the other side of
the House has declared that this can be done without officers, and
that it can be done by public sentiment !
On the 10th day of February a member from Georgia introduced
into this House a resolution calling for facts connected with this sub-
ject. Since that resolntion has been answered I have heard no allu-
ion to it by gentlemen on the other side. That statement of facts

shows that during the last throe and a half years, in a few Southern
States of this country, three thousand and forty-three illicit stills hays
been discovered and sixty.one hundred and lifty-three criminals ot
persons accused of crimes against the revenue haVe been arrested.
Now, if that is the state of public sentiment in that part of the conn-
try, and it allows such an enormous number of illicit stills and encotir-
ages such an enormous numbcr of perpetrators of crime, I wonder
how much we are going to be benefited by such a condition of " public
sentiment."
But that exhibit is the least alarming feature. One would suppose
that with such an exhibit as that staring them in the face the Repre-
sentatives of such respectable communities on this floor would hang
their beads in shame; but instead of that they come here and actually
force the fighting! They actually come hero and endeavor to force
a reducetion of appropriations to detect crime, these men who repre-
sent such districts! They undertake to assail the officers of the law
and prevent them from getting their pay for enforcing the statutes
of the United States in relation to the collection of the revenues I
For my own part I want the country and I want the louse to en-
derstand who is doing it. I want the country to take note of the men
who present this thing and press it for consideration in this House.
This rigorous enforcement of the law that gentlemen are so auxidus
to have mitigated has shown itself in the largely increased revenues
of the comntry. Three years ago, for the drst six months of the year
the amount of revene collected was only $442,562.64 ; for the first
six months of the current fiscal year the amount collected is over
$806,550.32. This report shows clearly what has been accomplished
by a rigorous and exact enforcement of the law. But this has been
achieved by no harsh and unrelenting treatment of men detected
violating the law. On the contrary, on one page of the report you
will find that twenty-five hundred and six of the individuals who
have been arrested for that crime have been amuestied by the Gov-
ernment; and this notwithstanding twenty-five men have been killed
and forty-nine men have been wounded-all officers in the perform-
ance of their dity; and notwithstanding one hundred and twenty-
five of these officers have been arrested by the State authorities be-
cause they were doing their duty, while only one man has been pros-
ecuted for these murders and woundings. If that is the kind of public
sentiment that is to enforce this law, I think we ought to increase
the appropriation instead of diminishing it.
Mr. HOOKER. It has been said by the gentleman from Tennessee,
[Mr. ATKiNs,] who has this bill in charge, that the motion I have
made does not amount to anything; that the language which I pro-
pose to strike out is simply surplusage. I did say, Mr. Chairman, that
the language in the bill which I propose to strike out, "including
payments for information and detection," was surplitsage, because in
the first line of the paragraph there are the words "for dotecting."
But the surplusage is not only in the language of the bill reported
by the gentleman from Tennessee, but it is in the appropriation which
the gentleman proposes to make.
It was stated by my friend from Virginia that it was only in 1878
this amount had been increased. In a year or two more you will prob-
ably be applied to by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, if we
have the same experience in the future as we nave had in the past,
to appropriate $100,000 for this purpose; and so on and on it will
increase.
I have said the language of the bill is surplusage in that particular
since the paragraph already appropriates for detecting persons guilty
of violating the internal- revenue laws. But the gentleman from
Maine [Mr. REED] undertakes to say that there have been so many
persons prosecuted under the law, that therefore it is necessary to
make this appropriation. Why, sir, no one wants to prevent prosecu-
tions for illicit distilling. Nobody proposes to strike out that feature
of the bill. But we do propose to strike out the feature of the bill
which provides for paying men who become informers and spies as
well as detectives. We do propose to strike out that. It was with
very great difficulty, if I remember correctly, that several Congresses
ago the gentleman got into the bill that feature of it.
I say the ordinary law officers of the Government, the grand j aries
assembled in the various districts where these offenses are commit-
ted, and the marshals appointed and paid by the Government and
whose duty it is to airest all offenders-those are the officers whose
business it is to detect these persons by the ordinary process of law.
They are the paid officers of the Government. It is the duty of the
marshal and the grand jnries of the district toferret out allmen who
are illicit distillers and who are violating the law. These are the
officers of the law known to the law. But the gentleman who re
ported this bill and the gentleman from Maine propose that there
shall be a corps of secret uflicers, spies, and informers who shall be
the means of enforcing the taws, anti who shall be paid for the secret
service thus rendered by the money of the people, while there are
already officers appointed by law and paid by law whose duty it is to
make the necessary investigation.
Mr. ATKINS. I deny that the gentleman's construction of the
clause under discussion is a legitimate one.
Mr. HOOKER. I was about proceeuing to remark that in the first
line of the paragraph we provide for detectives, and therefore it is
unnecessary to add to that clause to provide fur informers also. It
is to that feature of the bill and to the repetition of the word " detec-

1880.

333 9



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0347.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

tion" that I object. The bill really bears that construction. And
I say we ought to resort to the courts of the country, to the marshals,
and to the grand juries empanneled in the courts who by the process
of subpoena have a right to summon any and everybody as witnesses
and pay them according to the law as it now exists.
[Here the hammer full.]
Mr. KELLEY. I do not know if I caught the purpose of the gen-
tleman from Mississippi, [Mr. HOOKEi.] I listened attentively to
him and if I understood him, he is perfectly willing people shall be
paid for detecting illicit distillation, but not paid if they give infor-
mation. He wants the whole fund put in for detecting; but he holds
in contempt, all the contempt of an irish distiller of bog whisky, the
man who informs.
Now, I believe the way to enforce a law is to detect a crime and
arraign the criminal ; and if you cannot do it, to give information to
those who have the power to do it.
I have no hostility to the South, and I say to the gentlemen from
that section that the facts as to the number of illicit distilleries that
have been suppressed, the number of Federal officers who have been
murdered in attempts to suppress them, and the much larger number
who have been crippled there, give to their political adversaries an
amount of ammunition for the coming campaign that will infinitely
more than counterbalance any local popularity that may be made
among the moonshiners and their friends. Let the word "informa-
tion" stand. Let us pay people not only for detecting but for inform-
ing the Government of violations of law which they have detected;
and I think if we continue to enforce the law as well as we have done
for the last few years we will be able to live through the Irish hos-
tility to informers.
The gentleman who spoke upon the tobacco tax alleged that there
had been a large increase of revenue from that tax since the reduc-
tion. There has been a large increase of internal revenue, but it does
not come from the tax on tobacco. That has fallen off; and I think
If it had increased it would not justify us in paying people for de-
tecting crime on condition that they should not give information.
Mr. IOUK. I desire to say a fowwords on this subject, as I come
from one of the districts which makes occasionally a little "moon-
shine," known in our country sometimes as "mountain dew."
What I desire to say is this: I am opposed to stiking out the clause
in the pending paragraph appropriating money for information and
detection. We have had a great many indictments in my part of the
country for illicit distilling and illicit commerce in distilled spirits.
There was a time when a great many good citizens, not understand-
ing the revenue laws, innocently engaged in that business. But
under the poli-y of the Government saying to our people who had
transgressed that if they would become law-abiding ciizens, if they
would cease to make illicit whisky, they should have officers there
who would treat them properly, perhaps more than two hundred
persons in East Tennessee, in the portion of the country that I have
the honor to represent, have been amnestied with the understanding
that their honor and law-abiding purposes were pledged to see that
the laws of the Government should cease to be violated.
This has encouraged the honest people of the country to engage in
the legal manufacture and distillation of whisky and brandy; and to-
day distilleries according to law are springing up all over my district,
(laughter,] instead of distilleries contrary to law as it formerly was.
Within the last few mOn the legal distilleries have increased, [renewed
laghter,] and illicit distilleries decreased in my section. Gentlemen
may laugh at this, but it is better to make whisky according to law
than to make it contrary to law. We have encouraged these men to
invest their capital in distilleries, and we owe it to the men who have
thus engaged in legal commerce to protect them against the illegal
manufacture of whisky.
Mr. UPDEGRAFF, of Ohio. Is there not danger that you will soon
have a democratic district if you have so much distillation there I
[Laughter.]
Mr. HOUK. There are not half as many persons making whisky ao-
cording to law now as there used to be making it contrary to law;
and there is, therefore, no danger of my district turning democratic.
[Laughter.]
I submit to the House whether it is not a duty which we owe to
those who have engaged in the legal manufacture and sale of spirits
to protect them in that legal manufacture and sale. As I understand
it, this appropriation now under consideration is for the purpose of
protecting men who are engaged in distilling according to law, and
exposing the men who are engaged in it contrary to law. As an East
T'lennessean, as a tepresentative coming from a district where there
has been considerable "moonshine" whisky manufactured, I desire to
say here and now to this House that we do not want to be protected
ia any violation of law. We want to be protected in maintaining the
law and the dignity of the Government in collecting its revenue ac-
cording to law.
Mr. CHALMERS. I move that the committee now rise for the pur-"
pose of limiting debate on the pending paragraph. [Cries of "Vote!"
"Vote!"]
Mr. ATKINS. I think there will be consent to take a vote now.
Mr. CHALMERS. If there can be a vote, I will withdraw the mo-
tion.
The question was upon the amendment of Mr. HooER to strike

out the words "including payments for information and detection ;"
also to strike out "75,000" and insert "50,000," so that the para-
graph will read:
For detecting, and bringing to trial and puniebment, persons guilty of violating
the nternal.revenm, laws, or accessory to the same, $5,500; and the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue shall make a detailed statement to Congress once in each year
as to how ho has expended this sum.
The amendment was not agreed to, upon a division-ayes 50, noes
116.
Mr. WARNER. I desire to offer an amenulment to which I think
there will be no objection. It is to add to the pending paragraph as
amended these words:
And also a detailed statement of all miscellaneous expendirmre in the division
of internal revenue for which appropriation is made in this bill.
On page 28 of this bill there are four lines which make an appro-
priation of nearly $2,000,000.
Mr. ATKINS. I would inquire where the amendment is to come
in
Mr. WARNER. At the end of the paragraph now under considera-
tion.
Mr. ATKINS. I will state to the gentleman that I hold in my
hand the report of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, which gives•
a detailed statement of the expenditure of the $75,000 which has been
under discussion this morning. I have no dbjection to the amend-
ment.
Mr. BAKER. There is no miscellaneous fund to which this amend-
ment will apply.
The ameudment of Mr. WARNER was agreed to.
The Clerk read the following:
For contingent expenses of the Treasury Department, namely:
For stationery for the Treasury Department and its several bureaus, 840,000.
For postage roquired to prepay matter addressed topostal union countries, $1,500.
Mr. ATKINS. I move to strike out the last word. I was not in
yesterday when the inquiry was made by the gentleman from Missis-
sippi [Mr. MONEY] about ho fund appropriated for the Postmaster
and the Sergeant-at-Arms of the House, and the question was raised
as to whether the Committee on Appropriations was in the habit of
using any of that fund for postage. I wili say that I do not know
that the Committee on Appropriations ever used a dollar for postage.
I never myself used a dollar or a cent. I have always paid my own
postage, not only upon my private letters, but also upon all official
correspondence that I have had as chairman of the Committee on
Appropriations. I have paid every cent of postage on my correspond-
once, official or otherwise; and I can say the same thing for every
member of the Committee on Appropriations. I now withdraw my
formal amendment.
The Clerk read as follows:
Independent Treasury.
Office of the assistalbt treasurer at New York: For assistant treasurer, $8,000;
cashier and chief clerk, $4,000; deputy assistant treasurer, $3,600; chief of coin di.
vision, $3,600 chief of note-paying division, $3,000; chief of note-recelving division,
$2,800; chief of check-paying division, $2.800 ; chief of registered-interest division,
$2,600; chief of coupon-interest division, $2,400; chief of minor-coin division. $2,400;
chief of bond division, e2,250; chief of canceled-check and record division, $2,000;
two clerks, at $2,250 each; six clerks, at $2,100 each; ton clerks, at $ ,000 each;
eleven clorks, at $1,800 each; four clerks, at $1,700 each; seven clerks, at $1,600
each; four lerks. at $1,500 each; twelve clerks, attl,400 each; three clerks, atlil.O
each; five messengers, at $1,300 each; one messenger, $1,100; keeper of building,
81,800; chief detective, $1,800 two assistant detectives, at 81,400 each; three hal.
men, at $1,000 each; six watchmen, $720 each ; one engineer, $1,000; two porters,
$900 each; in all, $164, 670,
Mr. HOOKER. I move to amend by striking out '$8,000," in line
746, and inserting  $5,000;   so as to make the salary of the assistant,
treasurer at New York $5,000, instead of $9,000 as proposed in the bill.
By turning to a portion of the bill already passed upon, it will be ob-
served that the salary fixed for the treasurer of the United States is
$6,000, and for his assistant treasurer in this city, $3,600. When the
Treasurer of the United States is receiving $6,000, I do not see any
reason why the assistant treasurer at New York should receive $2,000
more. Hence I offer this amendment.
I do not know whether the assistant treasurer at New York per-
forms very much greater labors than the Treasurer himself; but I
presume that $5,000 is about the proper salary for this assistant
treasurer.
Mr. ATKINS. Mr. Chairman, [crios of "Vote!".' Vote!"]-I hope
gentlemen will be patient. We must understand something of what
we are doing. There is a reason for this salary being $8,000, and it
ought to be stated. New York is the great money center of this coun-
try. The funds belonging to the United States are kept at New York
in much larger amounts than at Washington City. The position of
assistant treasurer at New York is a more responsible position to-
day-a far more responsible position in its moneyed obligation s-than
that of Treasurer of the United States in Washington. For this reason
this salary has been fixed at $8,000. It has been this amount for some
time.
I must say to my friend from Mississippi that the Committee on
Appropriations are guided in matters of this kind by information
which comes to them from the Secretary of the Treasury and from
other Treasury officers. I believe there is no desire on the part of the
Secretary of the Treasury to increase the salary of the Treasurer above
$6,000, while there would be a vigorous protest against reducing the.
salary of the assistant treasurer at New York below $8,000.

3340

MAY 13,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0348.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

I will say right here that the Committee on Appropriations in the
preparation of this bill neglected to pass upon the proposed increase
'of last yerr to the salary of the sub-treasurer in the city of Boston.
I have no 'oubt that had we acted on it this time we would have
increased that salary. But if a proposition of that sort should now
be made, pen this bill, I shall be compelled, in order to be consistent,
to raise a point of order upon it.
I think the salary of the assistant treasurer at New York should
remain at (1,000 for the reasons I have given.
Mr. H00:fER. I wisllto say one word. If there is any necessity
for keeping a larger amount of the funds of the Government at New
York City than ,,nywhere else, Iam not aware of the fact. The Treas-
ury of the UniteC States as established by the laws of the land is the
proper place for th custody of the funds of the Government. There
has been, it is true, an assistant treasurer at New York, and also one
at New Orleans. The tame rule that applies to New York would proba-
bly apply to New Ork ans; yet I am not aware that there is any such
provision in reference to the latter place. I see no necessity for keep-
ing more of the funds of the Government in New York than are kept
at Washington. I pre sume the business in New York is pretty large,
and if the funds of thE Government are kept thereits drafts must be
paid there; but what i  the necessity for keeping the funds of the Gov-
ernment there? How has it arisen?    It is true that New York is a
large center of business.
Mr. ATKINS. Probably four-fifths of the interest on the public
debt is paid at New York City.
Mr. HOOKER. That may be probable; but why should it be?
That is simply a regulation of the Treasury Department, not a law.
I insist that my amendment is proper and reasonable, and ought to
be adopted.
The amendment of Mr. HOOKER was not agreed to.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mint at Denver, Colorado:
For salaries of the assayer in charge, 62,500; for melter, $2,250; assistant as.
sayer, $1,400; chief clerk, &1,S00 one clerk at $1,600; and one clerk at $1,400;
making, in all, $10,950.
Mr. PAGE. I move to amend by adding to the paragraph just read
the following:
That all material and supplies for United States mints shall be obtained aftit
advertisement and from the lowest bidder as now provided by law.
I do not desire to discuss the amendment. I think the committee
will readily see that it ought to be adopted.
Mr. ATKINS. I move that the committee now rise.
Mr. PAGE. Let this amendment be voted on.
Mr. ATKINS. I would rather understand more as to the effect
of it.
The motion of Mr. ATKINS, that the committee rise, was agreed to.
The committee accordingly rose; and the Speaker having resumed
the chair, Mr. Cox reported that the Committee of the Whole on the
state of the Union had had under consideration the bill (H. R. No.
6185) making appropriations for the legislative, executive, and judi-
cial expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1881, and for other purposes, and had come to no resolution thereon.
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE.
A message from the Senate, by Mr. BuNcH, its Secretary, announced
that the Senate had passed, without amendment, the bill (H. R. No.
4507) to abolish all tolls at the Louisville and Portland Canal,
BUSINESS O1 EVENING SESSION.
Mr. HOOKER. The gentleman from North Carolina, [Mr. SCALEs,]
chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs, who was compelled to
leave the Hall a few moments ago on account of sickness, desired me
to ask that the former order of the House for the consideration to-
night of a specific measure from the Committeeon Indian Affairs be
extended so as to allow the consideration of all reports from that
committee.
Mr. REED. What does this proposition include?
The SPEAKER. All reports from the Committee on Indian Af-
fairs.
Mr. REED. Does it include any bill in regard to the Territory of
Oklahoma?
Mr. HOOKER. It has nothing to do with that at all.
Mr. BAKER. Does it include the transfer of the Indian Bureau to
the War Department?
Mr. HOOKER. That report has not been made yet. The bill has
simply been referred.
Mr. BAKER. I did not hear the gentleman's answer.
Mr. HOOKER. I mistake. The report on that subject has been
made; but there is no intention to bring it up to-night. I ask that
it be excepted from the order.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman asks that the order which was
made assigning to-night's session for the consideration exclusively of
the bill in reference to the Osage Indians be extended so as toinclude
all reports from the Committee on Indian Affairs, except the transfer
of the Indian Bureau from the Interior to the War Department.
Mr. VALENTINE. With that exception, I make no objection.
Mr. CONGER. Let it be the understanding that the subject is not
to come up either as an amendment or in a bill.
Mr. HOOKER. Let that be expressed in the order.

Mr. BELFORD. I want to inquire whether it is the intention to
bring up the Te bill?
The SPEAKER. There is no time for .debate, as the hour for the
