State of llinois, to erect, construct, operate, and maintain a power station
thereon, and to project, erect, construct, operate, and maintain a wing dam
500 feet into the river frim the head of the said canal, and to make such other
dams ans improvements as may he necessary within said limits for the de-
velopment of water power and the generation, use, and transmission there-
from of electric energy and powvr at, in, and upon the Des Moines Rapids of
the Mississippi River: Pr ovidled, That the construction hereby authorized do
not in any way interfere with the existing low-water channel over the Des
eoines Rapids, or with the interests of navigation: And provided further,
That until the plans and location of the works herein antIorized, so far as
they affect the interests-of navigation, have been a pproved by the Secretary
of War the canal or other improvements shall not he coimeiced or built.
SEc. 2. That this act shall he null and void it actual construction of the
works herein authorized hunot cqimmeuced within three years and completed
within sir years from th  e      t hereof.
Snc. 8. That the right to alter, amend, or repeal this act is hereby ex-
pressly reserved.
Mr. HOPKINS. Reserving the right to object, I should like io
hear an explanation of the bill.
Mr. PAYNE. I wish to inquire whether the bill provides for
fishways over this dam?
Mr. HEDGE. This bill is designed to utilize a part of the Mis-
sissippi River that is not now used for any other purpose. It is
at the lower rapids of the Mississippi opposite Keokuk.
Mr. HOPKINS. On the Illinois side?
Mno   HEDGE. On the Illinois side. The gentleman's colleague,
Colonel MARSH, who represents that district, is in entire accord
with me and helped me to prepare this bill. This bill, or one very
similar to it, was passed by the House in the Fifty-third Congress.
This measure has received the approval of the Secretary of War
and of the Chief Engineer of the Army. I can say from personal
knowledge that the only purpose is to make what might he called
a mill race. This dam will extend only one-eighth of the distance
across the river.
Navigation there, Mr. Speaker, is through the great Govern-
mnent canal on the Iowa side of the river, the remaining portion of
the Mississippi there not being navigable except in unusually high
water, and is rarely used for navigation at any time. The object
of this bill is therefore very plain.
Mr. HOPKINS.      Let me ask the gentleman a question-
Mr. HEDGE. Certainly.
Mr. HOPKINS. How long has it been in that condition?
Ml. HEDGE. Always. There has been no change in that con-
dition as far as we have been able to ascertain. And the proposi-
tion embodied in the pending bill is entirely acceptable to all
parties interes'ted, 1 will say.-
Mr. COOPER of Wisconsin. Will the gentleman allow me to
ask him  a question?
Mr. HEDGE. Certainly.
Mr. COOPER of Wisconsin. I would like to ask If the Secre-
tary of War, or any other Government official who has cognizance
of the matter, hasgiven his indorsement to this enterprise. It
seems to be quite an unusual thing to allow an obstruction of this
character, extendingsome 500 feet into the water of a great river.
Mr. HEDGE. I will say to the gentleman from Wisconsin that
in the Fifty-third Congress the attention df the Secretary of War
was brought to this matter, and I have at hand his communication
upon the subject. At this point the river is about 4,000 feet wide.
Mr. COOPER of Wisconsin.      What does the Secretary say in
connection with the matter?
Mr. HEDGE. I will read to the gentleman what he does say:
WAa DEPA RTMENT
hl ashingten,  . C., Deceimber  , 103.
SIR: Ihave the honor to return Senate bill 1120 ity-third Congress, first
session, Granting to the Des Moines Rapids.Power Company the ight to

5518

MAY 14,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0707.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-lOUSE.

erect, construct, operate, and maintain a wing dam, canal, and power station
In the Mississippi River in Hancock County, IL," which was referred to this
Department on November 2, lb53, and to invite your attention to the accom-
panying letter from the Chief of Engineers, dated the 1st instant, and to the
copy of the report on the bill from Maj. A. Mackenzie, dated November 7,
whose views are concurred in by the Chief of Engineers.
The bill has accordingly been amended by the Chief of Engineers, who
remarks that as amended no objection, so far as the interests of navigation
are concerned, are known to his office to its passage. The amendments meet
with the approval of the Department, except the one proposed in section 2,
which provides that the act "shall be null and void if actual construction of
the works herein authorized be not commenced within two years and com-
pleted within three years from the date hereof." This time seems rather
short. If the work is commenced within three years and completed within
five years it will be soon enough.
The petition and tracing which accompanied your communication are
herewith returned.
Very respectfully,                DANIEL S. LAMONT,
Secretary of lar. .
The CHAIRMAN OF THE COMMITTEE ON Coln iErF
United States Senate.
Then Gen. Thomas Lincoln Casey, the Chief of Engineers, in a
long report also approved of this construction, and I may add in
this connection that Major McKenzie, who had immediate juris-
diction of the improvement on the Upper Mississippi River, also
indorsed it. The Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce
approved unanimously of the proposition.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to the request of the gen-
tleman for the immediate consideration of this bill?
There was no objection.
Mr. MOODY of Massachusetts. Mr. SDeaker., in view of the
fact that unanimous consent has been granted for the consideration
of this bill, I should be glad to avail myself of the opportunity of
inquiring of the gentleman from Iowa [Mr. LACEY], for my own
information, as to the status of telegraph and tolephone lines
generally through the public lands, and by what authority such
rights are granted?
Mr. LACEY. If I am permitted'to do so, I shall be very glad
to answer my friend from Massachusetts.
Mr. MOODY of Massachusetts. The inquiry that I desired to
submit to the gentleman from Iowa is not connected immediately
With the pending bill, but I should like to ask him as to the pro-
visions of law now existing in regard to the construction of these
telegraph and telephone lines and the acquisition of rights for
such purposes over the public lands and through the public
parks and reservations belonging to the United States.
Mr. LACEY. The question of the gentleman from Massachu-
setts does not refer to the pending bill?
Mr. MOODY of- Massachusetts. Not at all, but only with refer-
ence to the general policy pursued by the Committee on the Pub-
lic Lands in the cases to which I have referred.
Mr. LACEY. There is a bill, as the gentleman from Massachu-
setts is doubtless aware, now on the Calendar in regard to the
rights of way for telegraph and telephone lines and irrigation
ditches and other mdtters of that kind through the public lands.
Mr. MOODY of Massachusetts. I understand that. But what
is thepresent law in reference to this matter? Does the law require,
as was required in the case of the bill just now discussed by the
House. that there shall be some supervision over this matter by
some Government official-the Secretary of the Interior, we will
say, for instance?
Mr. LACEY. I will state to the gentleman from Massachusetts
that as to parks, reservations, etc., each separate bill has to be
taken up and-considered by itself, and the Secretary of the In-
terior is presumed to take the matter under advisement. We
had such a bill up a few moments ago and my distinguished
friend from New York objected to it.
Mr. MOODY of Massachusetts. But the bill passed reserved
the right to alter or repeal the grant, and also provided means to
regulate charters, etc. Now, the bill to which the gentleman from
Iowa refers has no such safeguard as far as I am able to understand,
and I would like to know if, in his judgment, it has been care-
fully considered by the gentleman himself or by his 6ommittee.
,Mr. LACEY. We have carefully examined all bills referred to
our committee, which have been reported to the House. We
have granted rights of way to telegraph and telephone companies
and for irrigation ditches over various reservations, but this is
simply a general provision which does not apply to such bills.
Mr. SHATTUC. Lef us have the regular order, Mr. Speaker.
The SPEAKER. The regular order is demanded, which is the
question on the engrossment and third reading of the bill which
has just been read.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time; and
it was accordingly read the third time, and passed.
On motion of Mr. HEDGE, a motion to reconsider the vote last
taken was laid on the table,
INTERSECTION OF THE TRUE ONE HUNDREDTH MERIDIAN WITH
RED RIVER.
Mr. LANHAM. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent for the
present consideration of the bill (S. 2582) to provide for the estab-
lishment of the intersection of the true one hundredth meridian

with Red River, to ascertain the amount of taxes collected by the
State of Texas in what was formerly known as Greer County and
the expenditures made on account of said county by said State,
and for other purposes. The bill is on the Clerk's desk. I want
to state in advance that this bill has passed the Senate and has
been unanimously reported with amendments by the Committee
on the Judiciary of the House.
The SPEAKER. The Clerk will report the bill.
The bill was read, as follows:
Whereas there was a controversy of long standing between the United
States and the State of Texas as to the ownership of the territory formerly
known as Greer County, Tex., which 'as finally determined in favor of the
United States by decree of the Supreme Court of the United States, March
16, 1896, in a suit in equity brought by the United States against the State of
Texas in that court; and
Whereas the treaty between the United States and Spain which was rati-
fied February 19, ISl, fixed the boundary between the United States and
Spain, and this became the boundary between the United States and the re-
public of Texas and the State of Texas, successively; and
Whereas it was provided by said treaty that the boundary line "west of
the Mississippi shall begin on the Gulf of Mexico, at the mouth of the river
Sabine, in the sea, continuing north along the western bank of that river to
the thirty-second degree of latitude; thence by a line due north to the degree
of latitude where it strikes the Rio Roxoof Natchitoches,or Red River; then
following the course of the Rio Roxo westward to the degree of longitude one
hundred west from London and twenty-three from Washington; then cross-
ing the said Red River and running thence by a line due north to the river
Arkansas, etc.;" and
Whereas the Supreme Court of the United States in said cause adjudged
that the words of said treaty "then following the course of the Rio Roxo
westward to the degree of longitude one hundred west from London and
twenty-three from Washington; then crossing the said Red River," referred
to the true one hundredth meridian astronomically located; and
Whereas the true intersection of said one hundredth meridian with Red
River, or what, prior to said decision, was known sometime as the South
Fork of Red River. or Prairie Dog Town Fork, has never been fixed by the
United States and the State of Texas, acting together and in the manner pro-
vided by said treaty, nor was said true intersection fixed by the decree in
said cause; and
Whereas the said territory formerly known as Greer County was formed
into a county in 1860, and duly organized as a county in 1886, under the laws
of the State of Texas, and continued as such organized county until the de-
cree aforesaid, with all the rights, duties, powers, and privileges of an organ-
ized county of said State; and
Whereas during the period of time the State of Texas claimed ownership
of and exercised jurisdiction over said territory the said State of Texas pat-
ented lands situated in other parts of the State to said Greer County as one
of the counties within the jurisdiction thereof, for school purposes, and which
lands said Greer County used and alienated and appropriated the proceeds
thereof exclusively for school purposes within its limits; and
Whereas during the period of time the State of Texas claimed ownership
of and exercised jurisdiction over said territory the said State of Texas col-
lected taxes from inhabitants of said territory and upon lands and other prop-
erty situated therein, and expended money for school purposes, the enforce-
ment of law and order, the care-of the deaf, dumb, blind, and insane, and
generally for the protection of life, liberty, and property therein, and the
establishment and maintenance of a government forth inhabitants thereof;
and
Whereas the Supreme Court of the United States, in the opinion in said
cause, entitled "The United States vs. The State of Texas" (162 U. S., 1, 9-90),
said: "It is further said that the State, since it assumed to create Greer
County. has expended a large amount of money in providing a public-school
system for the inhabitants of that locality. To what extent moneys have
been so expended is not clearly shown. Whatever may be the facts touch-
ing this point, we do not feel at liberty to give weight to them in this case.
The question before us, we repeat, is one of law, and must be determined ac-
cording to law. What may be fairly and justly demanded by the State on
account of moneys expended for the benefit of the inhabitants of the dis-
puted territory is a matter for the consideration of the legislative branch of
the National Government.
"In the argument it was suggestedthat this court ought not to forget how
much was added to the power and wealth of this nation when Texas, with
its imperial domain, came into the Union and her people became a part of the
Solitical community for whom the Constitution of the United States was or-
ained and established. This fact can not, of course, be forgotten by any
American who takes pride in the prestige and greatness of the Republic,
But the considerations which it suggests can not affect the doecisioflt of legal
q estions, and must be addressed to another branch of the Government.
he supposition is not to be indulged that that department of the Govern-
ment will fail to recognize any duty imposed upon it by the circumstances
arising out of this vexed controversy: ' Therefore,
Be it enacted, etc., That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby,
authorized and directed to cause to be established and fixed the intersec-
tion of the true one hundredth meridian with Red River, or what, prior to
said decision, was known some time as the South Fork of Red River, or
Prairie Dog Town Fork, by the most accurate and scientific methods, and at
said intersection cause a suitable monument to be erected on the ground.
SEC. 2. That the Secretary of the Interior is also authorized and directed
to inquire and ascertain what lands, if any, the State of Texas has patented
to the said Greer County for school purposes; in whom title to said lands is
now vested; whether said lands were alienated by said Greer County, and,if
so, the price paid therefor and what disposition was made thereof, and the
present market value of said lands.
Sgc. 3. That the Secretary of the Interior is also authorized and directed
to inquire and ascertain, first, the total taxes collected by the State of Texas
for any and all purposes from inhabitants of Greer County, or upon lands or
other property located therein, from 1860 to 1896; second, the total amount
paid by the State of Texas to said Greer County, or its officers or agents, for
school purposes, other than lands, from 1860 to 1890, and the disposition made
thereof by said county; and, third, the total of all other expenses incurred
by the State of Texas from 1860 to 1896 in the enforcement of law and order,
the care of the deaf, dumb, blind, and insane, and generally for the protection
of life, liberty, and property in said county, and the establishment and main-
tenance of a government for the inhabitants thereof, or a fair estimate of the
samne.
SEe. 4. That to enable him to execute the provisions of this act the Secre-
tary of the Interior is authorized to employ such persons and adopt such
measures as to him may seem pro  an  necessary. He is also anthorized
to receive andconsider duly certified copies of patents, deeds, conveyances,
transcripts of court records, and certificates from any department of the
Government of te United States or the State of Texa, under the seal thereof

1900.

5519



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0708.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

as to official records therein. He may also receive and consider depositions
of witnesses, and in such cases the United States shall be represented by the
Attorney-General thereof, or some person designated by him, and the State
of Texas shall be represented by the attorney-general thereof, or some person
designated by him; and these officials may appear and represent their re-
spective governments before the Secretary of the Interior in all other teat-
ters provided for by this act. He may also receive and consider any testi-
mony taken by either party in said cause entitled The United States against
The State of Texas, in the Supreme Court of the United States, reported in
162 United States, page 1, and may receive and consider any testimony which
he may consider to be pertinent to the subject of such inquiry.
SE. 5. That the sum of $7,500, or so much thereof as may 'he necessary, is
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise ap-
propriated, to enable the Secretary of ihe Interior to enforce this act; and
he shall report to the Congress at the next session, or as soon thereafter as
may be practicable.
The following amendments, recommended by the Committee on
the Judiciary, were read:
In line 1, page 7, strike out the word "enforce" and insert in lieu thereof the
following words: "properly care for the interests of the United States in
making such investigation and in carryin out the purposes of."
Also, after the word "'report," in same ine and page, insert the words "in
detail."
After the word "practicable," in line 2, page 7, add the following words:
"Provided, That the State of Texas shall defray the expenses of presen ting
its own case and claims."
The SPEAKER. Is there objection?
Mr. PAYNE. I would not object to the bill if it simply pro-
vided for the establishment of a boundary line; not even on ac-
count of the long preamble, which I think might be improved by
adding the Declaration of Independence and a few other things.
Mr. LANHAM. I am not responsible for the length of the pre-
amble. It comes here in that shape. It is, however, fully ex-
planatory of the object of the bill.
Mr. PAYNE. But there is a provision in this bill that looks to
the establishment of a claim on the part of the State of Texas for
having built schoolhouses on this disputed strip, in case it is
found not to belong to the State of Texas, but to the territory of
the United States. Now, I am not in favor of starting in on any
such claim as that at this time.
The courts of Texas would not allow it as between two of its
citizens if one of them had occupied the territory of another and
put betterments on it and afterwards he was ousted by a judg-
ment of eviction. They would belong to the man who owned the
land and not to the man who put the improvements on, and I do
not believe that we ought even to allow the foundation for any
such claim by a bill of this kind. And unless it is desired to
change this bill so as simply to establish a boundary line, I shall
object to its consideration.
Mr. RAY of New York. Before my friend objects, I should
like to say to him that I do not see any wisdom to an objection to
a bill which simply seeks to settle amicably and in a friendly and
just way a controversy between the Government of the United
States and the State of Texas. Now, this does not recognize any
such claim as the gentleman speaks of.
Mr. PAYNE. Why do you put the provision in the bill, then,
to ascertain how much taxes the State of Texas or this county in
Texas has collected from the people living in thig Territory, and
how much it has cost for schoolhouses and things of that kind?
Why do you put that in the bill if there is no foundation for any
claim?
Mr. LACEY. I should like to ask my friend another question.
How did this bill get before the Judiciary Committee? This whole
matter of the Greer County legislation that has gone through
Congre%s has come from the Committee on the Public Lands on
bills reported by that committee, up to this time.
Mr. HOPKINS. Do you object to it on that ground?
Mr. LACEY. No; but what is there in this bill that requires
it to go to any other committee?
Mr. RAY of New York. I do not know what there was about
it that should require it to go there, excepting the rules of the
House, which would not permit it to go anywhere else.
Mr. FLYNN. Is it intended to collect this money from Okla-
homa, if any is fouLd to be due to the State of Texas?
Mr. RAY of New York. No; we knew better than to try to
collect any money from Oklahoma.
Mr. FLYNN. I was wondering where this bill came from. I
never beard of if before.
Mr. LANHAM. May I state for the information of the gentle-
man from New York [Mr. PAYNE], and also the gentleman from
Iowa [Mr. LACEY], and the gentleman from Oklahoma [Mr.
FLYNN], that this bill, as already indicated, came from the Senate.
It was considered and unanimously reported by the Judiciary
Committee of the Senate, and passed that body without objec-
tion. In the report submitted by the Judiciary Committee of the
House there is a quotation of a statement made by the chairman:
of the Judiciary Committee of the Senate which is fully explana-
tory of the nature of this bill and the necessity for its passage.
Mr. LACEY. The whole controversy grows out of the title to
the public lands known as Greer County, and the question is
based wholly upon whether that land belonged to the United

States or belonged to the State of Texas. The Supreme Court of
the United States held by the United States?
Mr. LANHAM. Yes.
Mr. LACEY. This matter was referred to the Committee on
Public Lands to prepare legislation uponit. Mr. Brown, of Texas,
representing the settlers, and the Delegate from Oklahoma, repre-
senting the settlers there, also appeared before the committee, and
legislation adjusting the whole matter of Greer County was passed
through that committee. Now, this seems to require an investi-
gation of the whole public-land question.
Mr. LANHAM. Oh, no; you do not.understand the situation.
Mr. LACEY. I am trying to understand, and that is the rea-
son why I make this inquiry.
Mr. LANHAM. The first bill relating to the title to Greer
County went many years ago to the Judiciary Committee of the
House of Representatives, and there was an elaborate report made
upon it by Mr. Willets. I forget from what State he came.
There was also, if I remember correctly, a subsequent report from
the Judiciary Committee of the House on the same subject-matter.
It had been a subject of controversy for many years. There had
been many attempts to settle the question, and finally an act was
passed by Congress authorizing a suit by the Attorney-General of
the United States to be brought in the Supreme Court of the
United States against the State of Texas to determine this ques-
tion of the boundary, and whether Greer County was a part of Texas
or of the United States. That suit was instituted, and the terri-
tory known as Greer County was held to be the property of the
United States. The suit was adverse to the State of Texas, but
under an honest, earnest claim of right the State exercised juris-
diction over that county for many years.
Mr. HOPKINS. After the court held you had no right to?
Mr. LANHAM. Oh, no; this decision was rendered only a few
years ago. We had organized it into a county in Texas. It was
considered an integral part of that State. We had incurred ex-
penses in the construction of schoolhouses and other matters; and
I submit to the gentleman, as a lawyer, if, after having in good
faith occupied it and exercised jurisdiction over it for so many
years, improving it, building schoolhouses, maintaining a system
of public education, and incurring many other expenses, believing,
as we did, that the title was in the State of Texas, is there any-
thing wrong, or can there be anything wrong, in submitting the
investigation of the matter stated to one of the officers of this
Government, the Secretary of the Interior, and conferring upon
him the authbrity to ascertain what the facts are, what the ex-
penses incurred were, and reporting thereon in detail? And. fur-
ther, if finally, when it comes back to Congress (there is no deter-
minate nor conclusive action now contemplated aside from the
inquiry proposed by the bill), if the matter shall come back with
the favorable recommendation of the Secretary of the Interior, if
it shall be found by him that it is an honest and just claim on the
part of Texas, why should not the United States pay it, and why
should there not be a full ascertainment of all the facts, which is
the only present purpose of this bill? This course is, in effect,
suggested by the opinion of the Supreme Court.
Mr. HOPKINS. Will the gentleman allow me right there?
Mr. LANHAM. Certainly.
Mr. HOPKINS. Now, then, if all your arguments are correct,
would it not be better to take this up, not under unanimous con-
sent, so as to give the gentleman from Oklahoma an opportunity
to present his case in the regular order?
. Mr. LANHAM. There is nothing, I think, that the gentleman
from Oklahoma can reasonably object to for one moment.
Mr. FLYNN. I just want to say this: The title to Greer
County, under an act passed by the gentleman himself, was set-
tled on March 10, 1896, when the Supreme Court held that it was
the property of the United States, and, therefore, under the or-
ganic act of Oklahoma, it became a part of that Territory.
Mr. LANHAM. That is right, except that I was not the author
of the bill providing for the suit in the Supreme Court.
Mr. FLYNN. Now, then, we passed legislation, as the chair-
man of the Committee on Public Lands has said, taking care of
the property rights of those people, they then being in Oklahoma.
I suppose now we have to wait and let an officer make an investi-
gation of this matter. Everything is going along smoothly and
without any trouble. To me it looks that this is raising a ques-
tion of where a new boundary line shall be established, and will
consequently excite in the minds of the people of that county a
doubt whether at the termination of another trial they are going
to remain in Oklahoma, where they are now, or going back to
Texas.
Mr. RAY of New York. The gentleman is mistaken. It is not
a question as between the boundary line of Oklahoma ind Texas.
Mr. FLYNN. It is the boundary line of Greer County. •
Mr. RAY of New York. The decision of the Supreme Court of
the United States has settled the boundary line as between Okla-
homa and Texas. There is still a necessity on the part of the Gov-
ernment to determine the true one hundredth meridian where it

5520

MAY 14,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0709.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

crosses the Red River. It is not a question between the United
States and Oklahoma, but between the United States and the State
of Texas.
Mr. FLYNN. Exactly; but it is Oklahoma that represents the
United States.
Mr. RAY of New York. No, no.
Mr. TERRY. They are not trying to get anything away from
you, and they could not if they tried.
Mr. RAY of New York. The Territory of Oklahoma is not in-
terested in this, and is not affected by it in the slightest degree
whatever.
Mr. FLYNN. I do not want to interfere with anything that
the gentleman from Texas wants; but I do not want to lose any-
thing we have got in this. Under this act the Greer County line
was established by the decision of the Supreme Court of the United
States.
Mr. RAY of New York. Yes.
Mr. FLYNN. Now, in this bill it directs that a new line shall
be run.
Mr. RAY of New York. Not as between Oklahoma and Greer
County or as between Greer County and Texas at all.
Mr. LANHAM. It is to determine where the one hundredth
meridian crosses Red River by definite astronomical calculations.
Mr. RAY of New York. This bill is recommended and deemed
necessary by the Interior Department of this Government, after
careful consideration. The public-land question is all settled and
disposed of.
SMr. LACEY. What evidence has the gentleman of the fact
that the Interior Department is satisfied with it?
Mr. RAY of New York. From the letter of the Secretary of
the Interior.
Mr. LACEY. Why did you not print it in the report?
Mr. RAY of New York. Why do you not print everything
in the report? I suppose if it was deemed necessary it might have
been properly included.
Mr: McRAE. Let me make a suggestion to the gentleman from
New York. The Supreme Court fixed an imaginary line, and this
is simply to determine where that imaginary line is on the face
of the earth, and does not affect the title to Greer County at all.
Mr. STEELE. Then what do the schoolhouses and the esti-
mate of taxes have to do with it?
Mr. McRAE. I do not know about that.
Mr. LANHAM. It is to fix authoritatively and scientifically
where the one hundredth meridian crosses Red River. That point
has never been definitely and satisfactorily established. It is for
the interest of Oklahoma itself that it should be done. We raise
no question as to the title of Oklahoma to Greer County; that has
been finally and affirmatively settled by a decision of the Supreme
Court, and this bill does not propose to reopen that issue, but to
provide for ascertaining the facts of the case by the Interior De-
partment, to determine astronomically, accurately, and finally
where this meridian crosses the Red River. Then these other
facts involving the claim of Texas against the Government are
also to be investigated by the Secretary of the Interior. This is
like i'eferring an ordinary bill to the Court of Claims for the'ascer-
tainment of facts, except that it goes to the Secretary of the In-
terior instead of to the court, and then the whole matter is to be
reported back to Congress and passed upon by Congress after due
consideration of all the merits.
Mr. PAYNE. If you have no claim, why refer it to anybody
to find out what the facts are about schoolhouses and the amount
of taxes and all that sort of thing? We had such a case here the
other day when there was a bill coming in from one of the States
to reimburse it because of an invasion during the war of the rebel-
lion and the House very properly set down upon the claim rather
than to open up a case to be adjudicated by our grandchildren,
if they should ever happen to have a seat in Congress, as to how
much should be paid. Why not have Congress say now that we
do not owe Texas a dime?
Mr. LANHAM. How does Congress know that?
Mr. PAYNE. Why not mete out to Texas the same law that
she metes out to her citizens where two citizens reside in close
proximity, and one gets. over onto the plantation of the other in
good faith and builds a building and puts improvements upon it?
Mr. LANHAM. Will you say-I ask you as a lawyer-if,
under a claim of title, John Doe has for years enjoyed possession
of a certain tract of land and made valuable improvements thereon
in'good faith and under an honest claim, and afterwards in a suit
brought by Richard Roe for trespass to try title or action of
ejectment, these valuable improvements can not and ought not to
be taken into consideration in adjusting the rights of the parties?
Mr. PAYNE. Yes; in a case of ejectment he would have to
walk out and leave his improvements there.
Mr. LANHAM. Let me state again just what-this bill is: It is
to fix where the one hundredth meridian crosses Red River and to
ascertain these other facts mentioned and then simply report them
back to Congress for further action in the premises.

Mr. PAYNE. Well, if you stop there with fixing the point
where the one hundredth meridian crosses Red River, and appro-
priating $7,500, if that amount is necessary to find it out-although
it looks to me as if there is a good deal of astronomy in it, and
that any department of the Government might find that out at a
much less expense-why not do it, and not come in here with a
bill putting up for the future a claim by the State of Texas against
the Government of the United States that our grandchildren will
have to adjudicate?
Mr. LANHAM. This, I repeat, is simply a proposition to ascer-
tain the facts, and I dare say the gentleman from New York will
be in Congress when the report in detail comes back from the Sec-
retary of the Interior, and he can then apply to it his legal knowl-
edge and his splendid abilities.
Mr. PAYNE. Oh, no; I shall not be here then.
Mr. HOPKINS. He will probably stay here until the end of
the next century, but that will not be long enough. (Laughter.]
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to the present consideration
of the bill?
Mr. PAYNE. I shall have to object, Mr. Speaker.
The SPEAKER. Objection is made.
Upon examining the seventh section of the bill just before the
House the Chair observes that it contains an appropriation. An
error was evidently made in referring the bill to the House Calen-
dar; it should go to the Union Calendar, and the Chair will direct
that it be placed there.
JOHN C. SMITH.
Mr. JONES of Washington. I ask unanimous consent for the
present consideration of the bill (H. R. 8765) for the relief of John
C. Smith.
The bill was read, as follows:
Be it enacted, etc., That the Secretary of the Interior be, and is hereby,
directed to sell' the following-described tract of land, to wit: Lots 10, 11 and
12, and the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of section 26. and the
north half of lot 14 of said section 26, all in township 8 north, of range 35 east,
of the Willamette meridian, in the State of Washington, aggregating 161.28
acres, to John C. Smith for the sum of $1.25 per acre.
The amendments reported by the Committee on the Public Lands
were read, as follows:
In lines 6 and 7 strike out the words "and the north half of lot 14 of said
section 26."
•In line 10 strike out the words "sixty-one and twenty-eight" and insert
in lieu thereof "thirty-five and ninety-five."  -
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to the present consideration
of the bill?
Mr. PAYNE. I should like to hear some explanation of it.
Mr. JONES of Washington. This man, John C. Smith, settled
on this land in 1855. One year afterwards the land was set aside
as a military reservation. in 1872, however, it was relinquished
as a military reservation; and in 1880 it was turned.over by the
War Department to the Interior Department. This man has lived
on the land ever since 1855 except the time when he was driven
off by the Indians and a few months when he was driven off by the
soldiers of the United States. But in each case, after being driven
off, he went back; and he has been living there ever since. He has
raised a family there and has put up improvements.
Mr. PAYNE. If the land was abandoned as a Government
reservation, the man was entitled to enter it at $1.25 an acre.
Mr. JONES of Washington. The land was not included in any
military reservation at the time he settled on it. This bill is
recommended by the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
and certainly presents a very equitable case.
There being no objection, the House proceeded to the consid-
eration of the bill.
The amendments were agreed to.
The bill as amended was ordered ,to be engrossed and read a
third time; and it was accordingly read the third time, and passed.
FRANK E. KELLOGG.
Mr. COWHERD. I ask unanimous consent for the present
consideration of the bill (H. R. 4400) for the relief of Frank E.
Kellogg, collector of the Sixth internal-revenue district of Mis-
souri.
The bill was read, as follows:
Be it enacted, etc., That Frank E. Kellogg, collector of the.Sixth internal-
revenue district of the State of Missouri, be, and he is hereby, released and
discharged from any liability he may be under to the United States by rea-
son of the loss of a certain book, No. 1920, containing retail liquor dealers'
internal-revenue special-tax stamps of the value of S2,331.25, and the Abuditor
for the Treasury Department is hereby authorized to make the necessary
entries upon his books showing the discharge of said Kellogg from such lia-
bility.
The amendments reported by the committee were read, as fol-
lows:
Insert, in line 3, after the word "That," the words "the Secretary of the
Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized to release and discharge."
Strike out, in lines 4 and 5, the words "be, and he is hereby, released and
discharged."
Insert, in line 6, after the word "the," the word "alleged."
And after line 12, the words:
"Provided, That the Secretary of the Ticasury shall first be satisfied that
said loss really occurred, and that no damage has been or will be sustained

XXXIII-346

1900.

5521



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0710.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

bythe United States by such release: And provided further, That the.said
Kellogg shall first execute a bond of indemnity to the United States with
sufficient surety, to be approved by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. PAYNE. Is that the same bill we had up the other day?
Mr. COWHERD. Yes, sir; the same bill. I explained it then,
There being no objection, the House proceeded to the consider-
ation of the bill.
The amendments were agreed to.
The bill asamended was ordered to be engrossed and read a
third time; and it was accordingly 'read the third time, and
passed.
On motion of Mr. COWHERD, a motion to reconsider the last
vote was laid on the table.
SALES OF TIMBER ON PUBLIC LANDS.
Mr, GAMBLE. I ask unanimous consent for the present con-
sideration of the bill which I send to the desk.
The Clerk read the bill, as follows:
A bill (EH. R. 6063) to amend chapter 2 of the laws passed by the first session
of tl e Fifty-fifth Congress of the United States, being an act entitled "An
act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1898, and for other purposes," approved
June 4, 1897.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, That chapter 2 of the laws of the first ses-
sion of the Fifty.fifth Congress, being an act entitled "An act making appro-
priations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1898, and for other purposes," approved June 4, 1897, be, and
the same is hereby, amended by striking out the following words where the
same appear in said act, commencing with the word "Before," in line 36, on
page 315 of volume 30 of the United States Statutes at Large, and ending with
the word "exists," in the forty-third line of said volume and page,as follows:
"Before such sale shall take place notice thereof shall be given by the Com-
missioner of the General Land Office, for not less than sixty days, by publica-
tion in a newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the timber is situated, if any is therein published, and if not, then in a news-
paper of general circulation published nearest to the reservation, and also in
a newspaper of general circulation published at the capital of the State or
Territory where such reservation exists," and insert in liedl thereof the fol1-
lowing: "'Before such sale shall take place notice theireof shall be given by
tho Commissioner of the General Land Office, for not less than thirty days.
by publication in one or mere newspapers of general circulation, as he may
deem necessary, in the State or Territory where such reservation exists:
P~rovided, That the Commissioner of the General Land Office shall have au-
thority to sell, in case of emergency, such timber from the forest reserve as
shall have been designiated to any individual or corporation upon giving
notice aud under such rules and regulations as the Secretary of the Interior
shall prescribe."
The amendment reported by the committee was read, as fol-
lows:
At the end of the bill strike out the following:
Plrovided, That the Commissioner of the General Land Office shall havo
authority to sell, in case of emergency, such timber from the forest reserve
as shall have been designated to any individual or corporation upon giving
notice and under such rules and regulations as the Secretary of the Interior
shall prescribe."
And insert the following:
" Provided, however, That in cases of unusual emergency the Secretary of
the Interior may, in the exercise of his discretion,permit the purchase of
timbe and cord wood in advance of advertisement of sale at rates of value
approved by him and subject to payment of the full amount of the highest
bd resvlting from the usual adveitisemen of sale:  rovidedfurther, That
he may, in his discretion, sell without advertisement, in quantities to suit
applicants, at a fair appraisement, timber and cord wood not exceeding in
value $100 stumpage: And provided frther, That in cases in which advertise-
ment is had and no satisfactory hid is received, or in cases in which the bid-
der fails to complete the purhse,  timber may be sold, without further
advertisement, at private sale. in the discretion of the Secretary of the Inte-
rior, at not less than the appraised valuation, in quantities to suit pnr-
chasers."
The SPEAKER. Is there objection?
Mr. MADDOX. Reserving the right to object, I should like to
hear an explanation.
Mr. GAMBLE. Mr. Speaker, this bl         a   up for considera-
tion some two months ago; and its merits were, I think, fully
presented at that time, Its further consideration was objected to
by the gentleman from    California [Mr. LOUD], not that he bad
any objection, as I understand, to the mneasure itself, but~he was
opposed to the provisions of the lab of 1897. That law governing
forest reservations requires that before sale     may be made of
grown timber or dead or down timber there must he advertise-
mert for sixty days in two newspapers-one the nearest to the
place of sale. and the other a newspaper at the seat of the govern-
ment of the State or Territory in which the reservation is situated.
Tlhe application for purchase must be submitted to the superin-
tendent of the reservation, by him transmitted to the Secretary
of the Interior; then returned and examination made. By reason
of the sixty days' advertisement and the other proceedings re-
quired, such a vast amount of time is consumed that the pros-
pective purchaser frequently becomes discouraged and gives up
the purchase.
Tise is a matter of great importance to the people of the western
part of my State, because about 30,000 peopl ae a more or less in-
terested in this special reservation, without taking into consider-
ation the interests of the State at large, which are all involved.
This legislation was recommended by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office in 1899, and his recommendation was in-
dorsed and approved by the Secretary of the. Interior. It modi-
fies and shortens the term which is provided in the old law to
thirty days.

The members of the House will ufiderstand, of course, that
timber for various purposes is frequently required in small quanti-
ties on these reservations, and it would be an unnecessary and
unusual hardship to require sales under such circumstances to be
made under the existing law where, under the rules to be estab-
lished by the Secretary, the small purchase of wood can be made
without unreasonable delay.
Mr. McRAE. The bill, as I understand it, then, does not allow
additional power to the officials of the Department in regard to
dead or fallen timber?
Mr. GAMBLE. Not at all. It does not affect it in any way.
Mr. LOUD. I would like to ask the gentleman from South
Dakotaif he intends to offer the amendment which was suggested?
Mr. GAMBLE. Yes; undoubtedly.
I will state to the Speaker that the gentleman from California,
who has heretofore objected, waives that objection, if an anlend-
ment which I will submit is considered and which is satisfactory
to the California delegation.
Mr. LACEY. Is the amendment a general one, applying to all
of the public lands?
Mr. GAMBLE. It excepts California from the operation of
this provision of law.
Mr. LACEY. It seems to me that there must be an objection
to a provision of that character. I do not know what effect the
bill will have-
Mr. GAMBLE. The effect is that there is no waste of the
timber upon the public-lands-
Mr. LACEY. I will simply content myself by calling the at-
tention of gentlemen from States who are interested in this mat-
ter to the posiible effects of the bill.
The SPEAKER. The Chair hears 'no objection to the request
for unanimous consent, and the pending question is on the amend-
mend of the gentleman from South Dakota, which has been read.
Mr. PAYNE. Before the question is submitted, Mr. Speaker,
I would like to know why, if this amendment to this bill as a
whole is good for California, it is not-good for the whole United
States?
Mr. LOUD. I will state, in response to the gentleman from
New York, that the harm was done originally in the sundry civil
bill, which was passed more than a year ago, and to which the
pending bill refers. Conditions in the State of California are en-
tirely different, as far as the forest reserves are concerned, from
those of Washington, Oregon, and South Dakota. There is and
has been a mistake, I think, in the legislation of Congress in this
regard. It is impossible to adopt general legislation that will
cover a territory so widely different in its interests as our West-
ern territory. As a matter of fact, we have but little timber in
California. We want legislation to protect what is remaining.
This is essential for the purpose of retaining water derived from
the rainy season for the purpose of fertilizing our lands.
In Oregon and Washington and that region generally they have
more timber than they know what to do with. I do not think
that the people of Washington and Oregon, therefore, aie able to
understand exactly the necessity and the conditions which pre-
vail with us.
Mr. HOPKINS. I would like to ask the gentleman in charge of
this measure whether he thinks he represents the sentiment of
that people especially?
Mr. HEDGE. I think so. I have examined the subject very
carefully, and believe that I speak entirely in their interest.
Mr. LOUD. It ought not to apply to California for the rea-
sons I have stated, without going into details or detaining the
House. But I have consulted all of my colleagues upon the floor
here, and they quite agree with me that this legislation should
not apply to the State of California, though we have no objection
to it if it is not made to apply to that State.
Mr. HOPKINS. Why should it apply to Oregon and Wash-
ington?
Mr. LOUD. Well, I do not know. They do not object to it;
that is all I know about it. We do object to the legislation ap-
plying to the State of California. but we can not attempt to look
out for the interests of Oregon and Washington.
Mr. LACEY. I will suggest that the Commissioner of the
General Land Office requests this as general legislation, but the
demand for it, so far as I know, has come chiefly from the Black
Hills region.
Mr. GAMBLE. Yes; because it is very thickly settled there-
Mr. LACEY. But the Secretary of the Interior and the Com-
missioner of the Land Office have desired it ever since the amend-
ment to the appropriation bill to which the gentleman from Cali-
fornia refers.
Mr. HOPKINS. Why not limit it to the section where they
demand it?
Mr. LACEY. There has been no objection to it except from
California.
Mr. LOUD. I do not think there will be any objection in Ore-
gon and Washington, where they have to burn timber to get rid
of it.

'55~

MAY 14,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0711.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

Mr. LACEY. They do not have to burn timber to get rid of it,
but they are making the mistake of doing it.
Mr. GAMBLE. The Commissioner is very anxious to have
this pass.
The SPEAKER. The amendment of the gentleman from
South Dakota [Mr. GAMBLE] is an amendment to the amendment.
The question is upon agreeing to the amendment to the amend-
ment.
Mr. McRAE. Before the question is taken, I wish to say that
I did not understand the bill as the gentleman from California
appears to understand it. In answer to my question the gentle-
man from South Dakota [Mr. GABInir] said it did not enlarge
the power of the Department to sell timber, but only to deal with
advertising it.
Mr. GAMBLE. With the procedure.
Mr. MCRAE. The original bill does not contemplate the de-
nuding of any forest reserve, but only the sale of down and ma-
tured timber such as can be cut without injury to the forest.
You can not maintain these large forest reserves full of matured
timber falling every year without getting rid of it. In some of
them it is not necessary, but in others it is absolutely necessary
to get rid of the timber that gets ripe to make way for the young
trees t9 come on, and at least to take care of the timber which
falls and endangers the whole forest reserve by forest fires. So if
this bill only deals with the advertisement, thirty days is time
enough and is as good as sixty.
The amendment to the amendment was agreed to.
The amendment as amended was agreed to.
The bill as amended was ordered to be engrossed and read a
third time; and it was accordingly read the third time, and passed.
On motion of Mr. GAMBLE, a motion to reconsider the last vote
was laid on the table.
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE.
A message from the Senate, by Mr. PLATT, one of its clerks,
announced that the Senate had passed joint resolution of the fol-
lowing title; in which the concurrence of the House was re-
quested:
S. R. 122. Joint resolution respecting the unveiling of the statue
of Lafayette, at Parfs, France. July 4, 19CO.
The message also announced that the Senate had passed with-
out amendment bills of the following titles:
H. R. 10780. An act to provide for sittings of the circuit and
district courts of the southern district of Florida in the city of
Ocala. in said district;
H. R. 9635. An act to establish light-house and fog signal in
. State of Washington; and
H. R. 8963. An act to fix the terms of the district and circuit
courts of the western judicial district in the State of Louisiana.
The message also announced that the Senate had agreed to the
report of the committee of conference on the disagreeing votes of
the two Houses on the amendment of the House to the bill (S. 2650)
granting an increase of pension to Katharine Taylor Dodge.
The message also announced that the Senate had agreed to the
amendments of the House of Ropresentatives to the concurrent
resolution of the Senate No. 49. to print The Smithsonian Insti-
tution; Documents Relative to Its Origin and History.
The message also announced that the Senate had passed the fol-
lowing resolutions; in which the concurrence of the House was
requested:
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That the
Secretary of War is hereby directed to appoint a board of officers of the
Corps of Engineers whose duty it shall be to make careful examination and
prepare a detailed estimate for the improvement of Snake River, in the
States of Idaho and Washington, from the head of navigation on said river to
the point of junction with the Columbia River, with a view to improving said
river and making the same navigable at all seasons.
Also:
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurrig), That the
Secretary of War is hereby authorized and directed to cause a preliminary
examination and survey to be made, in accordance with the provisions of
section 22 of the river and harbor act approved March 3, 1899. in Cleveland
Harbor, with a view to the further improvement of said harbor: First, by
such additional construction or extension as may be necessary to provide a
safer and better entrance for vessels at the main entrance to the breakwater
in said harbor; second, and further to provide such additional harbor room
as may be found necessary by an extension eastward of the breakwater now
under construction in said harbor.
Also:
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Reresentalives concurring), That the
Secretary of War be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to cause a
preliminary examination and survey to be made in accordance with the pro-
. visions of section 22 of the river and harbor act ot March 3, 18, in Boston
Harbor, with a view of providing channels 2,000 feet wide and hi feet deep
from the navy-yard at Charlestown and the Chelsea Bridge and Charles
* River Bridge to President Roads, and from President Roads through Broad
Sound Channel to the ocean.
Also:
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That the
Secretary of War be directed to cause a survey to be made of the outlet to
Flathead Lake, in the State of Montana, with a view to ascertaining the
feasibility, desirability, and the probable cost of maintaining said lake at its
normal height, and thus preventing the overflow of part of the upper valley.
I   The message also announced that Mr. HANSBROUaH had been
excused from further service, on his own rqquest, as a conferee on

the bill (H. R. 6250) extending the time for proof and payment on
lands claimed under the desert-land law of the United States by
the members of the Colorado Cooperative Colony in southwestern
Colorado, and that the President pro tempore had appointed Mr.
PETTIGREW to fill the vacancy.
SENATE BILLS REFERRED.
Under clause 2 of Rule XXIV, Senate bills of the following titles
were taken from the Speaker's table and referred to their appro-
priate committees as indicated below:
S. 597. An act to provide for a public building at New Orleans,
La.-to the Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds.
S. 4532. An act for reestablishing the range lights on the Dela-
ware River known as Finns Point range, Reedy Island range, and
Port Perm range-to the Committee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce.
S. 4306. An act for the relief of settlers under the public-land
laws tolan-4 within the indemnity limits of the grant to the North-
ern Pacific Railroad Company-to the Committee on the Public
Lands.
S. 3301. An act to provide an American register for the barge
Davidson-to the Committee on the Merchant Marine and Fish-
eries.
S. 2884. An act for the relief of Edward Everett Hayden, an en-
sign on the retired list of the Navy-to the Committee on Naval
Affairs.
S. 1290 An act to provide for the erection of a public building
at San Francisco, in the State of California-to the Committee on
Public Buildings and Grounds.
S. R. 111. Joint resolution concerning certain Chippewa Indian
