ginia, the facts bear out the assertion that tho fines arid for-
feitures thus far have more than taken care of the amount
allotted by the National Government for the enforcement 6f
this law. But even if it did cost that much outright, what Is
that compared with the annual drink bill of $2,500,000,000 in
America, plus the unspeakable depletion of the earning capacity
of millions of men and women, plus also the cost of police courts
and prisons everywhere?
A SOLTS WARNING.
I come to bring you in good fellowship this solemn warn-
ing, and in saying this thing I want to declare that I stand with
uncovered head before the marble integrity and splendid man-
hood of maniy of my colleagues who do not agree with me on
this question. In aiy long light before coming to Congress, for
the enactment of this law, I proceeded upon this fundamental
motto: "Love for the saloorkeeper but death to the saloon."
And so wlat I say is wholly impersonal.
Down in my city we have a genial merchant, "Bob" Broyles,
who is a volcanic orator. He is also gloriously "dry" and
gloriously red-headed. He told me the story of a boy who
came down the street crying. A policeman said to him, " Sonny,
what are you crying about?" The boy replied, "That boy
said that my sister was red-headed and I climbed him and
got bunged up." The policeman said, "Well, ain't your- sister
red-headed? " and the boy replied, " No; I ain't even got no,
sister; it is just the principle of the thing." [Laughter.] So,
when a man says, " I do not drink myself, but I am against
prohibition on principle," I am compelled to reach the conclu-
sion that if his principle makes him in favor of the sale of
liquor and his neighbor's principle makes him opposed to it,
then the thing that influences him is a liquor principle. And I
would be afraid to sleep with such a thing.
But I am not here to discuss the fundamental issues in
detail. I come to this hour seeking to send this message as
broadcast as I may, because I find so many good men forgetting
the danger of influential utterances on this question. This is
one of the things I warn against. We want to be law-abiding
citizens; we vant to do everything to build up a sober, happy
Nation; but if Members of this Congress, influential in the
leadership of their own sections, and if other prominent leaders

of America right now, when this law is only beginning, suffer
themselves to make rash public utterances that discourage law
enforcement, they are hurting the meaning and the spirit of our
Government. Some thoughtless people say that the fight is over.
IS THlE FIGHT OVER?.
Is the fight over? May we fold our hands and fight no more
and give no more to the cause of righteousness? I offer you
for your answer the meeting in Chicago last year of a great
gathering of the amalgamated, concentrated, "unfumigated"
liquor Interests, who pooled what they claimed was $2,000,000,000
of their holdings and put as much as they might need into the
hands of resourceful lawyers to fight this eighteenth amend-
ment. And newspaper stories have been sent broadcast magnify-
ing every failure and minimizing every success of prohibition.
Do you think the battle is over? I offer you for your answer
the fact that last November more than half a million men ia
Ohio marched to the polls and voted to unratify the constitu-
tional amendment already ratified. Do you think the battle
is over? I offer you for your answer the election in New
Jersey of a man who declares that he was elected on a lank
that "would make New Jersey and the Nation as wet as the
Atlantic Ocean." he governor of that State led his legislature
to the enactment of a 3i per cent law, which defiantly tramples
the one-half per cent Volstead law that we passed here, a law
in consonance with the spirit of the eighteenth amendment.
That law declares Congress shall make laws for the enforcement
of this act. The governor of Maryland led in a similar tragedy.
In doing that they set the example and gave the personal encour-
agement to every form of lawbreaking that the liquor forces
know how to carry out. These liquor men who are declaring
prohibition laws " unconstitutional" and crying ",Bac k to the
Constitution!" really mean "Back to the barrooms of our
fathers!"
I speak not of any one man or party. I speak of the liquor
business as a business. It has no conscience or politics. Up
yonder in Pennsylvania it stands for "the Grand Old Repub-
lican Party." Down in Georgia, where most everybody is a
Democrat, I heard one of their attorneys stand before the
committee of the whole in the legislature and say, "Oh, sons of
Democratic fathers, the principles of democracy call on you to
rise in the majesty of your might and drive out this iniquitous
fanaticism." Ha! ha! In Kentucky and Ohio, where it is nip
and tuck between Republicans an Democrats, the liquor inter-
ests stand for " any old thing" that will perpetuate their In-
iquitous rule.
What is to be done? Listen. I-give you over against that
dangerous leadership of these " wet" governors the answer of
the governor of Massachusetts when he vetoed the 2.75 per cent
law. Hear it:
BRAVERY Or GOV. COOLIDGE.
There Is little satisfaction in attempting to deceive ourselves. There
is grave danger In attempting to deceive the people. If this act were
placed on the statute books of this Commonwealth to-day, it would pro-
vide no beer for the people. No one would dare act upon it, or if any-
one did he would certainly be charged with crime. Similar laws in
other States are-to date ineffective. I am opposed to the practice of a
legislative deception. It is better to proceed with candor.
When I took office I took oath to support the Constitution of the
United States. That Constitution and the laws of Congress are declared
to be the supreme law of the land. It may be that the eighteenth
amendment and the act under it are one or both void. So far as any
court has decided, I understand the amendment has been sustained.
They have been before The Supreme Court for some time, where up to
now they both stand as law. That which the court hesitated to decide
I shall not hasten to declare. It would be extremely improper to under-
take to influence that decision by the action of the law-making power
of Massachusetts. Do not anticipate it; await it. My oath was not
to take a chance on the Constitution ; It was to support it. When the
.proponents of this measure do not intend to jeopardize their safety by
acting upon It, why should I jeopardize my oath by approving it? -
This comes as a brave answer from a brave and honored
Republican governor of the historic Commonwealth of Massa-
chusetts. Democrat as I am, I crown this loyalty to the
Constitution of the United States and to the home interests of
the American people, and I rejoice to give the hand of fellow-
ship to Gov. Coolidge as a governor worthy of a great Com-
monwealth. [Applause.]
Gentleman, the eighteenth amendment found its way into the
Constitution by due and orderly process after half a century
of a public educational campaign, and when it found Its way
there by the vote of both Houses of Congress and was indorsed,
not by the necessary 30 States but by 45 States of the American
Union, I believe that when any governor will lead his people
to trample on the national law and the Constitution of the
United States itself, and thereby shake his fist at the American
flag and say, "My State is bigger than the National Govern-
ment," I believe that that governor ought to be removed from
office, if not put behind the bars. [Applause.]
Gentlemen, here is the danger I bring to you. If we create
the spirit of defiance concerning this law we open the door

,7118

MAY 15,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0637.txt

CONGIESSIONAL RECORD-lHOUSE.

through which a horde of lawbreakers will come and trample
with impunity every law that is put on the statute books. I
have fought side by side with leaders of all denominations In
fighting saloons, including several Catholic priests, therefore I
say It with sorrow and warning, but a high dignitary like Cardi-
nal Gibbons, after the law had been passed, when its enactment
was about to come into force, gave out a declaration that he was
still opposed to prohibition. He said that 20,000 priests would
not be able to celebrate mass because they could not get wine. I
answer him earnestly and definitely, that there are more than
20,000 ministers of God in this land that celebrate the Lord's
Supper with "the fruit of the vine," but not the fermented
kind that has the evils of intemperance in it. It is a dangerous
thing for a man, high or low, in church or state, to use his influ-
ence to discourage the enforcement of a law that was enacted
for the guardianship of the sobriety of the manhood and the
womanhood of America.
Without reference to the merits of unfermented or fermented
wines, permit me to say, however, that there is nothing in the
eighteenth amendment that prevents or authorizes the prohibi-
tion of the manufacture or sale of wines for sacramental pur-
poses. The following communication was sent by the general
counsel of the Anti-Saloon League of America to the Catholic
paper entitled America, which gives the attitude of the Anti-
Saloon League and most other prohibition organizations con-
cerning the manufacture and use of wines for sacramental pur-
poses:
WAYNE R. WHEELER'S ANSWER.
In the America on February 21, 1920, is found the following:
" MAY CONGRESS NOW DAN THE MASS?
"The answer to this question must be that under the eighteenth
amendment the legal power of Congress to ban the mass can not be
questioned.
" The conviction that under the eighteenth amendment Congress
inight legally suppress the mass has been strengthened by the frank
admission, made by Mr. Wayne B. Wheeler, chief legal counsel for the
Anti-Saloon League."
Permit me through your columns to emphatically deny that I ever
made any such admission or any statement justifying any person to
quote me against the use, making, selling, or using of sacramental
wine. In the eighteenth amendment the use of wine for sacramental
purposes is not prohibited, and In my judgment could not be prohibited,
ecause it does not represent any beverage use, nor does It have any
reasonable relation to the purpose of the prohibition act to prohibit
the beverage use of liquor.
Here is the reply I made at the hearing In the New Jersey Legisla-
ture to Mr. Brown, a member of the committee, who is aggressively
against prohibition. Reference Is made to this by Father McNamara in
America on March 20:
" Mr. BRowN. Yes; and you will go a step further if you should suc-
ceed in passing another act-that is by way of supposition-you would
do away entirely with the use of wines for sacramental or medicinal
purposes if you thought it was necessary, would you not?
"Mr. WHEELER. No; that Is specifically provided for. in the Vol-
stead Act.
"Mr. BROWN. I know, but the Constitution itself provides for a
limitation for beverage purposes ; Isn't that right, a prohibition?
" AMr. WHEELER. Yes; for beverage purposes.
"Mr. BnowN. But if you want to make effective your line of argu-
ment, and it became necessary, you would legislate that no liquor
could be used for any purpose at all, would you not?
"Mr. WHEELEE. Well, I would say no.      I have always advised
against In any way interfering with the manufacture, sale, or use of
wine for sacramental purposes; it has always been considered a part
of the religious rite. They did It in one State contrary to our advice
and the supreme court of that State held that they had no constitu-
tional right to do it. It was Interfering with a religious rite."
The above Is from the official stenographic notes.
This is in harmony with the consistent -attitude the Anti-Saloon
League of America has taken on this subject. We were asked at the
time of the adopting of the amendment why the league did not urge a
specific exemption for sacramental wine from the eighteenth amend-
ment. The reason was clear.
" The eighteenth amendment prohibits the manufacture and sale of
Intoxicating liquor for beverage uses. The Judiciary Committee and
Congress considered the sacramental use of wine as having no rea-
sonable relation to the beverage use. For this reason they decided it
was unnecessary to specifically exempt it."
After the present draft of the eighteenth amendment was agreed
upon by the prohibition forces, I submitted it to a large number of
Influential Catholic lawyers to see if they had any doubt about the
amendment and the construction for which we contended. Among
them were Judge William H. De Lacy, first judge of the Juvenile Court
in Washington; Charles F. Reddoch, a leading Catholic lawyer of
Idaho; John Boyce, of Indiana, and many other leading Cathollb lawyers
and laymen who gave strong opinions that sacramental wine could not
be prohibited under authority to prohibit beverage liquors'.
In order that there might not be any doubt In the minds of Catholics
concerning the attitude of the officers of the Anti-Saloon League of
America, this statement was adopted by the officers of the league, and
given to the press, while this controversy was pending:
" It is the purpose of the Anti-Saloon League of America to secure
legislation to prohibit the beverage-liquor traffic and not to ifiterfere
with wine for sacramental use.
"This purpose was made clear by the national prohibition amend-
ment, which prohibits only the beverage use of intoxicating liquors.
This wording has been repeatedly construed by leading Catholics and
Protestants as not including wines for sacramental use by any reason-
able or fair construction.
"The Anti-Saloon League forces In Arizona championed the amend-
ment to the original prohibition law so as to specifically exempt from
its prohibition wines for sacramental use.
" We wish to assert, without qualification, that It Is our unremitting
purpose as Anti-Saloon League officers, to avoid even the appearance

of supporting any measure which would Interfere with the religious
rites or ceremonies of any denomination or communion."
We trust that you will give the same publicity to the facts concern-
ing this matter as was given to the other article.
WAYNE B. WnEELER.
"STATE RIGHTS " FOR LIQuon.
There Is another amusing thing, and that Is the way that
our friends on the saloon side talk about State rights. I have
been told that a large par.t of the great liquor fund that was
raised was put into a certified check and laid before Charles E.
Hughes, who would have been a far greater President than he
made a candidate, a great Christian man, and they said: "Take
this and lead our fight for the overthrow of the eighteenth
amendment." With lightning flashing from his honest eyes, that
intrepid, stainless son of a Baptist preacher, said, "Let thy
gold perish with thee. This law. has had no opportunity to
show what it will do, and I refuse to join in such an unholy
cause." Then they went with a check that was signed, to a
former President, William Howard Taft-bless his heart-he
has been behaving mighty well since he was President of the
United States-and they said to him: "Fill out the amount
and lead our cause to break down this law." And that great
man answered: "Gentlemen, I-was opposed to prohibition, but
this law has found its way onto the statute books by due
process, and I would not sell myself to the liquor interests of
this country for any amount that they can put into that check."
[Applause.]
I have heard about "Hires' Root Beer." But there came a
case where "beer hires Root." And one of the most brilliant men
In America was brought into the case, declaring to the United
States Supreme Court that the States ought to have their own
rights in making and enforcing the laws that affect their people.
It is the funniest thing in the world to a man from the South to
hear these northern friends of liquor talking about State rights.
[Laughter.] I hear old Hickory Jackson saying now, when that
brave little Hotspur of the South, South Carolina, had some ideas
of her own about State rights. "By the eternal, I will send an
army down there and whip her back into the Union." I think
of the Hartford Convention, in the heart of New England, which
had some ideas about State rights. And I do not remember-I
was not living then, but I am told tha the men up North who
did not believe the State ought to be allowed to have its own
way about everything, came down South with an overwhelming
majority to help to spank our daddies into the surrender of the
doctrine of State rights.
And now we come back, the solid South, if you please, gone
gloriously dry, overwhelmingly sustained by the sentiment of
the people of the Nation, and we say to these Northern States
that want to remain wet-to New Jersey and Rhode Island and
Delaware, especially, that did not ratify-we say to them, In the
words of Dr. Wilbur F. Crafts, of the International Reform
Bureau, "You would not ratify and you shall not nullify." And
we propose, as the friends of righteousness down South, stand-
ing with the friends of righteousness up North, to spank those
friends of State rights who want to shake their fists at the
American flag, and tell them that that thing was settled in the
mingled blood of Gettysburg and Appomatox, and we propose
to stand for the enforcement of the law against those in every
State who want to secede from the American Union on account
of liquor. [Applause.]
A NATIONAL EVIL REQUIRES A NATIONAL REMEDY.
The liquor business is so universally debauching and so defi-
ant of State lines and State laws, that we are compelled to have
a national remedy to cure a national evil.
And I remind you that the friends who would see this law
nullified, who would seek to make it ineffective by refusing to
help to enforce it, are standing for the bringing back into this
country of a business so bad that it will not allow its own clerks
to patronize it. I read this from a Fort Worth Record years
ago : "Wanted a young man to be shipping clerk to amail-order
liquor house. Any young man addicted to intoxicating liquors
need not apply." I fancy an ad in the Washington Herald, if
you please, from Parker, Bridget & Co., "Wanted a young man
to sell clothing in our store. Any young man caught wearing
breeches can not have the job." [Laughter.] Or an ad from a
grocery firm, "Wanted a young man to sell flour in our store.
Any young man in the habit of eating biscuits need not apply."
[Laughter.] That Is the very identical spirit. And here we are
called on to-day by men who ought to be friends of sobriety to
bring back a law that will protect a business that will not
allow its own clerks to patronize it. We are called upon to
weaken this law that means so much for the sobriety of the
people. I want to say this before I close. The party that tries
to build its platform and its future on a beer keg or a liquor
barrel will be doomed to defeat before the American people.
With national constitutional prohibition greatly hobbled during

1920.

7119



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0638.txt

dON CR]E11;SSIONAL RECORD-0USE.

its first few months of enforcement, we have seen great decrease
of drunkenness and crime, and a great increase of home joys
and human happiness. And such an end, my colleagues,, is the
highest meaning of legislation.
Gentlemen, I come to you with this earnest word: The eyesc
of the world are on America. For the influence of our laws and
the safety of our young man nhood, who are the "to-morrow of
this Republic," I call upon every friend of law and order and
constitutional Government to do his best to create a spirit that
will enforce the law that the people have righteously enacted.
The eyes of the staggering world are upon tllat flag as they have
never been before.. It has not only stood unselfishly for the
rights of humanity, and therefore has never known defeat, but
it must stand now a stainless flag for the good of all humanity.
If America fails in this, the first great nation to put such a
law by orderly process on the statute books, then struggling
humanity will say " We want no more of America's example,"
but if America wins, If the men who say that they love God
and the right, the welfare of the boys and the girls of the
present and the future, If they stand-for the law that has found
its way on the statute books by due governmental process, if
they will take their stand by the side of the honm  and fight
back the enemies of the home and the church of the living God,
they will not only hell) to Insure American purity and American
security, but they will give to all humanity a glorious example
of what America can do as the triumph, thank God, of our
Christian civilization. [Applause.]
Mr. STEENERSON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
address the House for 10 minutes on the p9stal commission.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Minnesota
asks unanimous consent to address the House for 10 minutes.
Is there objection?
Mr. BLACK. Reserving the right to object, on what subject?
Mr. STEENERSON. On the postal commission.
Mr. BLACK. I have no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection?     [After a
pause.) The Chair hears none.
Mr. GARD. Mr. Speaker, a parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman will state it. -
Mr. GARD. Will the gentlemin yield back such timle as he
did not use?
Mr. UPSHAW. I will yield back tile remaining time.
Mr. KEARNS. Mr. Speaker, a parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman will state it.
Mr. KEARNS. To whom did the gentleman yield back this
tine?
The SPEAKER pro temnpore. The gentleman yielded back
the time, although It Nwas not necessary, yet. it did no harm.
The gentleman yielded back to tie House itself.
Mr. STEENEISON. Mr. Speaker, I am sure that the idim-
hership of the House, like myself, have received a great many
letters and clippings in criticism of the work of the Joint Com-
mlission on Postal Salaries, and I think, therefore, that it would
be appropriate for tie, as a member of that commission, to
make a few remarks upon its work.
One charge is that Republicans are holding up postal salary
increases. In tihe first place, the commission was created by the
last Congress. It. was organized on the 3d day of March,
1919, and consisted of five Senators and live Representatives.
Of these five Senators there were three Democrats and two
Republicans, and of the Representatives there were three
Democrats and two Republicans; so that there were six Demo-
crats and four Republicans on the commission. The Senator
frobin Alabama, Mr. Banklicad, was elected chairman and the
gentlemen from Tennessee [Mr. Moo] was elected vice chaimnan.
That was the organization of the commission until March 8,
1920, when a Republican Senator, Senator Pniiws, was elected
to succeed the late Senator Balkhead. The Democrats therefore
controlled the commission up to that date, and they must bear
tle I)lame if there was any unnecessary delay. Since March
8, .1920, the Republicans and Democrats have been a tie, so if
nay blame there is for delay since then it should be equally
divided. The critics of the commission seem to labor tinder
a misapprehension as to what it was created for. They seem
to go on tile theory that it was created for the sole purpose of
raising postal salaries and to do it quickly.
The statute creating it says it is " authorized to investigate
tle salarics of postmasters and employees of the Postal Service,
with a view to reclassification and readjustment of such salaries
upon an equitable basis." There are more than 200,000 positions
oil record in the Postal Service, and there are nearly 100,000
more employed under contracts or lunip-sum   appropriations.
To reclassify and readjust all these positions of various classes
and grades is a work of considerable magnitude. It is work that
involves a reorganization of tle whole  postal system. It is a

work that requires much attention to details and a broad com-
prehension of the work of that department. It is a task conipar-
able to the work of reorganizing the Army of the United States.
The Postal Commission, as soon as it entered upon its work,
found that in order to obey the law which created It, it would
require at least a year, and when the employees in the Postal
Service complained that their 'salaries were not then sufficiently
highA we took that matter up in Congress. The annual appro-
priation bill of last year carried the so-called temporary in-
creases or bonuses, amounting to $200 or over. Congress then
passed House joint resolution 151, which gave additional salary
increases ranging from $100 to $200, so that clerks whose basic
salary Is $1,200 now get $1,650, rural carriers whose basic
salary is $1,200 now get $1,700, and so oil. These last increases
were not recommended by the department, amd House joint
resolution 151 became law without time signature of the Presi-
dent. That was done because it was evident the commission
would require tile. It was, however, believed that a new
salary scale could be recommended to Congress and enacted
into law to take effect next fiscal year, beginning July 1. But
the hearings were not completed until about two weeks ago.
Since then we have hel executive sessions almost daily in
which salary and classifications have been gone over and dis-
cussed pro and con.
Many of them have already been tentatively passed upon,
and the work is, I should say, two-thirds finished. If we
encounter no unforeseen difficulties, Ave ought to be able to
make a report by the 1st of June. And if Congress is in
session, there will be time to enact the recommendations of
the conmlission into 1a1w by the beginning of the.next fiscal year.
The SPEAKER. The time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. STEENERSON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimious consent
for five minutes. more.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman front Minnesota asks uani-
inous consent to address the House for five lninutes.nlore. IS
there objection? [After a pause.] The Chair hears none.
Mr. STEENERSON. The idea never occurred to the con-
milission that they were to start in and nuake a report before
the evidence was closed. Now, if for aniy reason, either by
the adjournment of Congress or any other, the recommendation
of the commission can not be enacted into law by the first of
the fiscal year, tile commission, I believe, would favor that
whatever salary increases are recommended shoul be retro:
active to tile beginning of the year, so that no employee would
suffer any loss by reason of such delay.
For these reasons it seems to me that this propaganda, if I
may so call it, that is going on is entirely unjustifiable. It is
alleged iii these reports that the'commission has " fallen down ";
thtt it has been brooding for 14 months over a report and is
not able yet to make it. You might as well charge that ii
court had been wasting'its time because It ]lad been gathering
evidence and considering it before rendering an opinion.
So far as the personnel of the commission is concerned, I
want to say this, that they are,. nearly all of them, old Members
of their respective 1-louses, and have bad a great deal to do
with the postal work and; postal legislation. . They have ap-
proached their task with only one spirit, and that is one of
kindly sympathy for all of the postal employees.
I believe that every member is animated by a desire to do
what, is fair and just by the employees.
There has not been the least sign of any division oil party
lines anlongst us, and we are all in favor of making a report
as quickly as it is physically possible to do so and do it intel-
ligently.
Mr. MADDEN. Will tlie gentleman yield for a question?
Mr. STEENERSON. Yes.
Mr. MADDEN. I hope that nobody will get the impression that
we are going to report by the 1st of June, because we may not be
able to do it, and I do not think we will be able to do it myself.
Mr. STEE.NERSON. Well, I did not intend to fix any time.
I was simply expressing a hope. The gentleman from Illinois
[Mr. MADDEN] is one of tle most hard-workig members of this
commission, aid ie devotes mnore time to it, perhaps, than ally-
one else, and if lie says that its work can not probably be
finished by the 1st of June, I will yield may judgnient to his,
because there has been no one more ardent and efficient than he
im the work of the commission.
Mr. ROUSE. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. STEENERSON. Certainly.
Mr. ROUSE. I will say to the gentleman that I am a mem-
ber of the commission, and I thouight last year that the conmis-
sion should have reported the 1st of December, and I think
to-day that the commission should report before the 1st of June,
and that a bill embodying its recommendations should be passed
by the House before'the 1st of June.

7120

MAY 15,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0639.txt

"1920.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD- TTOUSE.

Mr. STEENERSON. WVell, I- should be yery glad to-be able
to agree with the gentleman, and I shall strive in every way to
make -a report in time for that work.
The SPEAKER.. The time.of the gentleman from Minnesota
has expired.
SIXTH ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL SANITARY CONFERENCE.
The SPEAKER laid before the House the following message
from the 'President of the United States, which was read and,
with the' accompanying documents,' referred to the Committee
on Appropriations and ordered to' be printed:
To the Senate and House 'of Representatives:
,.I transmit herewith, for the consideration of the Congress
and for its. determination whether it will authorize that the
United States be officially represented in the Sixth Interna-
tional Sanitary Conference and appropriate the sum necessary
to meet the expenses incident to such representation, a report
from the Secretary of State setting forth the importance of the
conference and the reasons which make it desirable that this
Government be represented therein.
WooDDOW WILSON.
THE WHITE HOUSE,
15 May, 1920.
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
A message in writing from the President of the United States,
by Mr. Sharkey, one of his secretaries, announced that the
President had approved and signed bills and joint resolution of
the following titles:
On May 12, 1920:
H. R. 13227. An act to authorize the coinage of 50-cent p.,ces
in commemoration of the three hundredth anniversary of the
landing of the Pilgrims.                              /
On May 13, 1920:
H: J. Res. 302. Joint resolution authorizing an appropriation
for the participation of the United States in the observance of
the three hundredth- anniversary of t he landing of the Pilgrims
at Provincetown and Plymouth, Mass.;
. H. R. 13590. An act granting the consent of'Congress to Sid
Smith, of Bonham, Tex., for the construction of a bridge across
the lied River between the counties of Fannin, Tex., and Bryan,
0kla. ;
'H. It. 13724. An act to authorize the construction of a bridge
across the Sabine River at or near Orange, Tex.; and
H. It. 10917. An act to amend an act entitled "An act to incor-
porate the National Education Association of the United States,"
by adding thereto an additional section.
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED.
Mr. RAMSEY, from tie Committee on Enrolled Bills, re-
ported that they had examined and found truly enrolled bill
of the following title, when the Speaker signed the same:
H. R. 11927. An act to increase the efficiency..of the commis-
sioned and-enlisted personnel of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps;
Coast Guard, Coast and Geodetic Survey, and Public Health
Service.,
Sec . '  EXTENSION OF REMARKS.
Mr. EVANS of Montana. Mr. 'Speaker,.I ask unanimous con-
sent to extend my rein aks in the RECORD on the soldiers' bonus
bill.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Montana asks unani-
mous consent to extend in the RECORD his remarks on the sol-
.diers' bonus bill. Is there objection?
There was no objection.
DIPLO'MATIC AND CONSULAR APPROPRIATION BILI-CONFERENCE
REPORT.
Mr. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I desire to call up tile Confer-
ence report on the bill H. H. 11960, the Diplomatic arid Consular
approp riation bill, making appropriations for the Diplomatic and
Consular Service for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1921.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Pennsylvania calls up
the conference report on the Diplomatic and Consular appro-
priation bill, which the Clerk will. report by title.
The Clerk read as follows:
A bill (H. R. 11960) making appropriations for the Diplomatic and
Consular Service for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1921.
Mr. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unafinimus 'consent that
the statem-ent be read in lieu of the report.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from        Pennsylvania asks
unanimous consent that the statement accompanying the report
be read in lieu of the report. Is there objection?
Mr. SIEGEL. I object. I raise a poit'of order on the re-
port.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman can raise a point of oider
just as well and reserve it now.
Mr. SIEGEL. Very.well. I reserve the point'of order.

The SPEAKER., The Chair will see to it that the gehtleman's
rights are 'protected Without objection, the Clerk will read,
the statement.      1                       ..
There was no objection.
The.statement accompanying tile conference report Nyas read.
Thelcommittee of conference on the disagreeing votes of tile
two Houses on the anlendments of the *enate to the bill (H. It.
11960) making appropriations for the Diplomatic and Consular
Service for'the fiscal year ending June 30, 1921, having met,
after full and free conference have agreed to recommend and do
recommend to their. respective Houses as follows:
That the Senate recede from its am endments numbered 4, 10,
and 13.
That the House recede from its disagreement to fle anend-
ments of the Senate numbered 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, and 14.
Amendment numbered 1: That the House recede from its dis-
agreement to the amendment of the Senate numbered 1, and
agree to the same with an amendment as follows: In lieu of
the sum proposed by the Senate amendment insert " $480,000";
and the Senate.agree to the same.  -
Amendment.numbered 2: That the House recede from its dis:
agreement to the amendment of the Senate numbered  , and
agree to the same with an amendment as follows: In lieu of
the sum proposed by the Senate anlendment insert " $900,000";
and the Senate agree to the same.
Amendment numbered 3: That the House recede froli its dis-
agreement to the amendment of the Senate numbered 3, and
agree to the same with an amendment as follows: In lieu of the
matter propo6sed by the Senate amendment insert the following:
aPURCHASE OF EMBASSY EUILDING AND GROUNDS AT SANTIAGO, CHILE.
"For the purchase of an embassy building .and grounds at
Santiago, Chile, and.-for making necessary minor repairs anld
alterations in the building to put it into proper condition,
$130,000."
And the Senate agree fo the same.
Amendment numbered 15: That the House recede from its
disagreement to the amendment of the Senate numbdred .5 and
agree to the same with an amendment as follows: In itl~ of the
matter proposed by the Senate amlendment insert the fbllowImg:
FEES FOR PASSPORTS AND VISL.S.    1,;:,
"SECTION 1. From and after the .st day of June, 1920, tlmere
shall be collected and paid into the Treasury of tile Uni ted
States quarterly a fee of $1 for executing each application for
a'passport and $9 for each passport issued to a citizen or person
owing allegiance to or entitled to the protection of the United
States: Provided,' ThAt nothing herein' contained Shall be con-
strued to limit the right of the Secretary of State by reguilation
to authorize the retention by'State officials of the fee of $1. for
executing an application for a passport: And provided further,
That no'fee shall be collected for passports issued to ollicers
or' employees of the United States proceeding abroad, in the
discharge of their official duties, or to' members (f their imflle-
diate families accompanying'them, or to seamen, or to widows,
'children, parents, brothers, and sisters of American soldiers,
sailors, or marines, buried abroad whose journey is undertaken
for tie purpose and with the intent of visitifg the graves of
such soldiers, sailors, or marines, which facts shall be ilade
a part of the application for the passport.
" SEc. 2. From and after the 1st day of June, 1920, there shall
be collected and paid into the Treasury of the United States
quarterly a fee of $1 for executing each application of an alien
for a visO and $9 for' each visC of the passport of an alien:
Provided, That no fee shall be collected from any oflicer of any
foreign Government, its armed forces, or of any State, district,
or municipality thereof, traveling to or through the United
States, or of any soldiers coming within the terms of public
resolution approved October 19, 1918 (40 Stat. L., pt. 1, p. 1014).
" SEC. 3. The vIs6 of a passport of an alien may, under regu-
lations prescribed by the Secretary of State, be refused if the
applicant would be dangerous to the public safety or obviously
be liable to exclusion if allowed to present himself at a-port of
the United States for admission: Provided, That such appli-
cant, if rejected by the officer of the United States to whom
application was originally made, may appeal to the Secretary.
of State: And provided further, That the issuance of a vis' to
an alien by a person duly" authorized to Issue such vis6 -on
behalf of the United States shall not relieve said alien or tile
steamship company transporting him from the operation of
any provision of the laws of the United States.
1  SEC. 4. From and after the 1st day of June, 1920; It shall
be unlawful for any alien, other than a seaman, to enter or
attempt to enter the United States without a passport duly.
vis~ed by a person duly authorized by the Secretary of Stute
to issue such vis6: Provided, That this section shall not apply,

7121



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0640.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RiECORD--IOUSE.

to nationals of Great Britain domiciled in the Dominion of
Canada, Newfoundland, the Bernmudas, or the Bahamas, or to
nationals of France domiciled in St. Pierre and Miquelon, or to
citizens of Cuba, Panama, or Mexico..
" SE~c. 5. Fr:om and after the passage of this act etery citizen
or person, other -than a seaman, owing allegiance to 'or entitled
to the protection of tile United States and departing from the
United States or any. of tle possessions thereof for any foreign
country, except the Dominion of Canada,,'Newfoundland, St.
Pierre, and Miquelon, Panama, the Bermudas, the Bahamas,
Mexico, and Cuba, or departing from the United States or any
of the possessions thereof by way of ally of said countries for
any other country shall l)e required to bear a valid passport.
"SEc. 6. The validity of a passport or vis6 shall be limited to
.two years, unless the Secretary of State shall by regulation limit
the validity of such passport or vis6 to a shorter period.
. " SEc. 7. Whenever the appropriate officer within the United
States of any foreign country refuses to visC a passport issued
by the United States, the Department of State is hereby au-
thorized upon request in writing and the return of tile unused
passport within six months from the date of issue to refund
to tile person to whom the passport' was issued tile fees which
have been paid to Federal officials, and the money for that
purpose is hereby appropriated and directed to be paid upon
the order of the Secretary of State.
" SEc. 8. Section I of the act approved March 2, 1907, entitled
'An act in reference to the expatriation of citizens and their
protection abroad' (34 Stat. L., pt. 1, p. 1228), authorizing the
Secretary of 'State. to issue passports to certain persons not
citizens of the United States is hereby repealed."
And the Senate agree to tile same.
STEPHEN G. PORTER,
,.JOHN JACOB ROGERS,
H. 1). FLOOD,
Aaayers on the part of the House.
H. C. LODGE,
Wir. E. BORAH,
G. Al. HITCHCOC,
Managers on the part of the Seniate.
SvATEMiENT.
The managers on the part of the House at the conference on
the disagreement of the House to the amendments of the
Senate on I-I. 11. 11969, entitled "An act nmaking appropriations
for the Diplomatic and Consular Service for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1921," submit tile following written statement
in explanation of the effect of the action agreed upon by the
conference as to each of the said amendments:
The Senate recedes from its alnendiments Nos. 4, 10, and 13.
Aimendilent No. 4, ailpropriating funds for emergencies aris-
ing in the Diplomatic and Consular Service, increases the
appropriation from $400,000 to $500,000.
Amendment No. 10, providing for the expenses of the Inter-
nation'al High Commission, struck out the word " State " and
inserted the words " the Treasury."
Amendment No. 13,.under post allowances to consular and
diplomatic officers, added a proviso limiting the expenditure
of the appropriation.
Senate amendments Nos. 5, 6, 7, 5, 9, .1i, 12, and 14 were
agreed to by the managers on the part of the House.  -
Amendment. No. 5 inserts a new paragraph appropriating
$4,500 for the relief of Mrs. Winifred T. Magelssen.
Amendmet No. 6 adds a new paragraph making tle unex-
pended blahice of time appropriation for the fiscal year ending
'July 1, 1920, 'available for the fiscal year ending July 1, 1921,
for the objects and purposes designated by said act of appro-
priation.
Ailcindillent No. 7 inserts a new paragraph appropriating
$9,000 for expenses in connection with the Pan-Pacific Union.
Amendments Nos. S and 9 changes the word " International
to " Inter-American."
Amendment No. 11 changes the appropriation for the Inter-
iational Joint Comission on Waterways Treaty, United States
and Great Britain, from $25,000 to $40,000.
Amendnient 'No. 12 struck out the last proviso limiting the
expei diture of the appropriation.
SAiliendnient No. 14 changes the appropriation for contin-
gemit" expensies for the United States consulates from $900,000
t $1,000,000.  .
SAnendnmient No. 1 fixes tile aliount for clerks at embassies
nnd lgations at $480,000 iistead of $68,000, as pt~oposed by
.tie Senate alendment.
Amendment No. 2 incre'ases tlme appropiriation for-contin-
genmt expemses, foreign inissions, to $90,000.instead of $1,000,-
001), " l proposed by the Semate aienendient:  .

Amendment No. 3, providing for the purchase of embassy
buildings and grounds at Santiago, Chile, changes the lan-
guage but leaves-the appropriation of $130,000 the same.
Amendment No. 6 changes the language and makes this the
final appropriation under existing treaties for the maintenance
of the International Boundary Commission, United States and
Mexico,. and dissolves the commission from        and  after six
months from July 1, 1920.
Amendment No. 15, relating to fees for passports and visos,
struck out the amendmnent submitted by the Senate and inserts
new matter.                          STEPHEN G. PORTER,
JOHN JACOB ROGERS,
H. D. FLOOD,
3. anagers on thc part of the House.
Mr. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
strike from the statement the paragraph at the head of page 5,
.relating to the Mexican Boundary Commission, which was in-
serted inadvertently.
-The SPEAKER. The gentleman from             Pennsylvania asks
unanimous consent that the paragraph referred to be stricken
out, having been inserted by-mistake. Is there objection?
There was no objection.
The- SPEAKER. Does the gentlemiin from New York [Mr.
SiEGEL] mitke a point of order?
Air. SIEGEL. I make A point of order against the bill, and
particularly against Senate amendment No. 15, on the ground
that wheil the bill passed the House and Senate there was no
provision similar to the language now contained in it. It is an
elementary rule of the House that all that the conferees can do
is to pass upon such legislation which is germane, and that they
can not exceed their powers.
Now, the Senate inserted ill Senate amendment 15 a proviso,
reading as -follows:
FEES FOR PASSPORTS AND VISaCS.
From and after the Ist day of May, 1920, a fee of $1 shall be col-
lected for each application and $10 for each passport issued to a citizen
or person owing alleiiance to or entitled to the protection of the United
States or a llerson woo has declared his intention to become a citizen of
the United States, and said fees shall be paid into the Treasury of the
United States at least quarterly: Provided, howevocr, That no fee shall
be collected for passports issued to officers and employees of the United
States proceeding abroad in the discharge of their official duties.
From and after the ist day of May. 1920, a fee of $9 for each visd
of the passport of an alien and $1 for each application of an alien
for a vls6 shall be collected and paid into the Treasury of the United
States quarterly: l'roided, That no fee shall he collected from any
officers of any foreigni Government; its armed forces, or of any State,
district, or municipality thereof, traveling to or through the United
States or soldiers coming Within the terms of public resolution No. 44,
Sixty-fifth Congress (11. J. -Res. 131).
Fi-om and after the passage of this act it shall be unlawful for any
citizen or person owing allegiance to or entitled to the protection of the
United States or any person who has resided in the United States three
years and has declared his intention to become a citizen of the United
States to depart from the United States for any foreign country except
Canada, Mexico, Cuba, Bermuda, and the Bahama Islands. or by way
.of these excepted countries to a foreign country, through the posses-
sions of the United States or otherwise, or to depart from said posses-
sions for any foreign country except Panama and those hereinbefore ex-
cepted, unless he bears a valid passport.
Which provision, in effect, would require a payment of $9 and
$1 in the case of a passport or.vis6. There was no such provi-
sion in the House bill. In conference they went further than
that. They provide, in section 8, as follows:
Section 1 of the act approved March 2, 1907, entitled "An act in
reference to the expatriation of.citizens and their protection abroad "
(34 Stat. L, pt. 1, p. 1228), authorizing the Secretary of State to
issue passports to certain persons not citizens of the United States is
hereby repealed.
They also endeavor to give the United States consul abroad
the power to determine who shall have the right to come into
this country, and who shall be kept out of it. For example, in
section 3 they say:
The vis of a passport of an alien may, under regulations prescribed
by the Secretary of State, be refused if the applicant would be
dangerous to tile public safety or ohviously be liable to exclusion if
allowed to present himself at a port of the United States for admis-
sion: Provided, That such applicant, If rejected by the officer of tile
United States to whom   the application was originally made, may
appeal to tie Secretary. of State And provided further, That the issu-
ance of a viSd to an alien by a person duly authorized to issue such
vis6 o1 behalf of tile United States shall not relieve said alien or tle
steamship company transporting him from the operation of any pro-
vision of the'laws of the United States.
They also provide that no person slall be allowed to leave
the United States without obtaining a passport.
Now, it Is my contention that there was no such provision in
the bill as it passed the Senate, 611d that therefore- the con-
ferees had no power to exceed that whicl had been inserted in
the Senate, namely, simply increasing tile fees. They have done
two things here: One is that they set up a consular officer as the
authority to determine who should come into this country, and
secondly, they attempted to repeat that part of the law which pro-
vides'that passports may be issued to those who are declarants.

7122

M1AY 15,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0641.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-IOUSE.

The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman state what the section
provided that is repealed?
Mr. SIEGEL. That section provides that passports shall be
issued to those who are declarants.- In other words, during the
war, and for a long time before that, we issued passports to
those who were not full citizens, but who had the right to go
abroad.
They attempt to repeal it by this act, and that is accomplished
if this should become a law. In addition to that, in section 3
they practically make the consul on the other side the immigra-
tion officer to determine the question as to who shall' be ad-
mitted to the United States. Furthermore, in contravention
of treaty agreements, no alien will be able to leave here. It
seems to me that the conferees certainly exceeded their powers.
Mr. WALSH. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. SIEGEL. I do.
Mr. WALSH. Was not section 8 an original Senate amend-
ment?
Mr. SIEGEL. Oh, no; it was not. Section 8 was added in con-
ference, and sections 3 and 4 were added in conference. It seems
to me clearly subject to a point of order on two grounds: One
that these items are not germane to what was the original Sen-
ate amendment; and second, that the conferees have exceeded
.their powers because there was no such amendment passed
in the Senate at the time it was added on.
Mr. HICKS. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. SIEGEL. I do.
Mr. HICKS. Will the gentleman inform the House as to
just what the provision was that the Senate put in with refer-
ence to passports?
Mr. SIEGEL. The Senate simply provided that there should
be a charge of $10. There was no provision by which the con-
sular officer was to become the immigration officer. I will say
that on a point of ordei in the House, when the gentleman from
Texas, I believe, 'attempted to offer some amendment providing
for an increased amount to be paid for passports, it was prop-
erly ruled out of order because that was new legislation.
The bill went over to the Senate, and there they put in a
proviso about the $10. That part was a subject for the con-
ferees when the bill w-ent to conference, but they could not
go a step further and repeal the law or add to it a whole lot
of new ideas, changes, and thoughts which entered their minds,
practically nullifying the immigration law. That was and is
exclusively within the domain of the Committee on Immigration
and Naturalization.
Mr. HICKS. Then the gentleman is not basing his objection
on the point of order that as the Senate had put in $10 as a
fee, the conferees exceeded their authority on that ground?
He is basing it upon some other provision?
Mr. SIEGEL. On the one proposition that the only ques-
tion that the conferees could determine was whether they would
agree to the $10 for the passport or the vis6. Personally I
think it was a great mistake to put in the provision which
they did put in that passports should be required for any
person leaving the United States. Up to the time of the war
anybody was at liberty to leave the United States with or
without a passport, but under this provision which they put
in here-
The SPEAKER. That was put in in the Senate.
Mr. GALLAGHER. Is it not a fact that that is new legis-
lation, because they are trying to make permanent law out
of the war legislation providing for passports?
Mr. SIEGEL. Not only that. They have gone a step fur-
ther. They have put in more drastic provisions than we had
during the entire period of the war or in all of the country's
history. They strike at the very freedom of movement of the
American citizen, although we are at peace.
Mr. LONGWORTH. If I understand the gentleman, lie
makes his point of order against sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8,
and not against sections 1 and 2. Am I right in that?
Mr. SIEGEL. My contention is that the point of order must
lie against the whole conference report.
The SPEAKER. If any point of order is made, it is m'ade
against the whole conference report.
Mr. SIEGEL. Yes; it must lie against the whole report. I
have made my point of order to that effect.
Mr. ROGERS. Mr. Speaker, by way of analogy I should
like to recall to the mind of the Chair the situation that is pre-
sented when one House strikes out all .of the bill as passed by
the other House and substitutes a bill of its own. Of course, the
rule is very well established and very familiar that when the
bill goes to conference the conferees can throw away both bills
if they like and write a new bill of their own, the only qualifi-
LIX-    44S

cation upon that rule being that the new bill .must be germane
to the subject matter of one or the other of the old bills.
Ir. SIEGEL. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. ROGERS. Let me proceed a little further, please.
Mlr. SIEGEL. I should like to correct the gentleman.
Mr. ROGERS. We all know that in many cases the second
body to act in a case of that kind prefers to throw aside all
that the first body has done, because it will find it more con-
venient to have its own bill throughout. The suggestion is often
made that a further reason is that the future conferees desire
to have their hands entirely unfettered when the bill goes to
conference. Although the two bills as passed by the Senate and
House respectively may be very similar in many respects, never-
theless the rule prevails and applies, the whole matter is in
conference, and the conferees may write an entirely new bill.
