changed against commodities," which explains why, when money
is withdrawn from circulation by reason of lack of confidence,
industry stagnates, even though the actual volume of money may
be large.
As bearing upon the quantitative theory of money, Professors
Taussig and Carver, of Harvard University; Professors Sum-
ner and Fisher, of Yale University; Professor Seligman, of Co-
lumbia University; Professor Jenks, of Cornell University;
Professor Kinley, of the University of Illinois; Professor Cook,
of Amherst College; Professor Clark, of the College of New
York; and Professor Johnson, of the New York University
school of Commerce, some of them free traders and some of
them l)rotectionists, all agree that the fundamental cause of
high prices the world over is the increased quantity of gold.
That more money makes higher prices will hardly be denied
by Democrats, who in 1896 declared that more money makes
higher prices, and proposed to free coin silver to make more
money to make higher prices, and as a further means of relief
proposed to make the 40-cent silver dollars so coined legal tender
in payment of debts contracted at 100 cents on the dollar.
But against a universal background of high prices, for which
a universal cause Is assigned, various local causes are assigned
In various countries, and here in America, inasmuch as a polit-

ical campaign Is approaching, it is inevitable that a partisan
effort should be made to hold the party in power responsible
for everything it is thought the people may not like.
Therefore, inasmuch as the people may like a thing in one
place and not like it in another place, gentlemen will probably
find it expedient to go into town and weep on the necks of
city purchasers of farm products because prices are high, and
from the rear platform of the first train out of town congratu-
late farmers on the prices they are getting for what they sell
to city purchasers.
INCONSISTENCIES.
Gentlemen when addressing city audiences will probably tell
them that high prices are due to the tariff.
But when they tell their audiences that high prices are due
to the tariff, how will they explain to them the rise of prices
in England, where there is no protective tariff?
Duties were raised by the Payne bill on certain articles of
luxury, like perfumes, wines, liquors, and silks, but no complaint
is made of this except by those who are able to pay the bills.
But when gentlemen tell their city audiences that high
prices are due to the tariff, how will they explain to them the
fact that prices have gone up as well on articles on which the
duty was lowered as on articles on which the duty was raised?
Outside of luxuries, like perfumes, wines, liquors, and silks,
the duty was raised on articles consumed in this country only
to the amount of $300,000,000, while it was lowered on articles
consumed in this country to the amount of $5,000,000,000.
When gentlemen tell their audiences that the tariff has raised
prices, how will they explain to them that prices have gone up on
articles consumed in this country to the amount of $5,000,000,-
000 on which the duty was lowered as well as on articles con-
sumed in this country to the amount of only $300,000,000 on
which the duty was raised?
When gentlemen tell their audiences that the tariff has raised
prices, how will they explain to them the fact that prices have
gone up on articles on which duties were left undisturbed
as well as on articles on which duties were raised and as
well as on articles on which duties were lowered?
The duty was removed from hides and lowered on shoes, sole
leather, and harness leather.
When gentlemen tell their audiences that the tariff has
raised prices, how will they explain to them that prices have
gone up on hides, shoes, sole leather, and harness leather?
We lowered the duty on lumber, and I voted for free lumber,
and I did this notwithstanding my high opinion of the judg-
ment of Mr. Pinchot, who, at the request of a divided Ways
and Means Committee for his opinion as Chief Forester as to
the relation of the conservation of timber and the price of
lumber to the tariff, gave it as his judgment that "free lumber
under present conditions would have no effect on the price to
the consumer," and "that the conservation of the forests"
would not "be aided by a reduction of the tariff." But when
gentlemen tell their audiences that the tariff has raised prices,
how will they explain the fact that prices are no lower on
lumber?
We lowered the duty on dressed meats by 25 per cent.
When gentlemen are telling their audiences that the tariff
has raised prices, let them explain why the price of meat is up,
notwithstanding lower duties.
The revision on iron and steel and on the ore, which is the
basis of the iron and steel industry, was downward by about 50
per cent.
When gentlemen tell their audiences that the tariff has raised
prices, how will they explain to them why prices are no lower
on iron and steel?
There is no duty on hard coal, and the duty on soft coal was
reduced 33 per cent.
When gentlemen are telling their audiences that the tariff
has raised prices, how will they explain to them the fact that
prices are no lower on coal?
There is no duty on rubber.
But when gentlemen are telling their audiences that the tariff
has raised prices, let them tell them why the price of rubber
has advanced.
There is no duty on petroleum, countervailing or otherwise.
When gentlemen are telling their audiences that the tariff
has raised prices, let them explain to them why the prices of
petroleum and its products have not gone down.
There was no increase of duty on wool and hemp.
When gentlemen are telling their audiences that the tariff
raises prices, let them explain to them why prices have not re-
mained the same on woolen and linen fabrics.
There was no change in the duties on women's gloves, except
a downward change on Schmaschen gloves.
When gentlemen are telling their audiences that the tariff
has raised prices, let them tell them why dealers have raised

6548

MAY 19,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0857.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

the prices of women's gloves, notwithstanding the fact that the
only change of the duty on gloves was a downward change.
When gentlemen are telling their audiences that the tariff
causes high prices, let them tell their audiences that prices are
up in Canada as well as here.
Let them tell their audiences that the Canadian minister of
agriculture has been conducting an investigation as to the
cause of high prices in Canada.
And let them tell their audiences what benefit it would be
to American producers and American consumers to remove the
duty from Canadian products and let Canadian products into
our markets free to compete with the products of American
farmers.
Our duties on farm products are designed to protect our
farmers, and the same reason exists now for protection to
American farmers under high prices as existed for the protec-
tion of American farmers under low prices, because prices have
gone up on both sides of the border line.
Not only are our duties on farm products designed to protect
the American farmer, but the whole system of protection re-
sults in his benefit, because the more people there are at work
the more people there are to buy what the farmer has to sell.
The more people there are to buy what the farmer has to sell,
the better price the farmer gets for what he has to sell.
And the better price the farmer gets for what he has to sell,
the more he buys of what the manufacturer makes to sell.
And the more the manufacturer sells of what he makes to
sell, the more men he employs.
THD LAW OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND.
Another cause of high prices, older and more inexorable even
than the quantitative theory of money, is the law of supply and
demand.
We have a higher standard of living now than ever before,
and more extravagance than ever before.
Demand is crowding supply, and as Mr. James J. Hill has
suggested, the cost of high living is in part responsible for the
high cost of living.
A few years ago boys wore out their father's old clothes
made over according to a neighborhood pattern, and the year
was divided, as David Harum says, between "chilblains and
stun bruises." Now, they have to have store clothes and socks
to match their neckties and a college yell.
A few years ago a man was considered well off if he kept a
horse and buggy. Now he has to have an automobile if he has
to mortgage the place to get it, and in the language of Mr.
Dooley, "The man with the automobile is constantly steerin' be-
tween the poorhouse and the county jail, and if the police don't
land him in wan, the automobile will land him in the other."
To meet the increasing demands of an increasing population
and an increasingly extravagant population the products of our
farms are not sufficient, notwithstanding the fact that our
farms yielded last year $S,760,000,000, an Increase over the
yield of 1908 of $869,000,000.
Between 1890 and 1910 our population has Increased about
43 per cent, and by an estimate by the Secretary of Agriculture
beef cattle have increased only about 15 per cent, milch cows
32 per cent, sheep 40 per cent, while hogs have decreased 17
per cent.
We are not getting enough out of our soil and we are not
giving enough back to it. France produces 310,000,000 bushels
of wheat a year. We produce in the United States 700,000,000,
and France is considerably smaller than the State of Texas.
THE FARMER.
Among the causes assigned for the failure of farm products
to keep pace with present demands are:
Scarcity of farm help and consequent inability of farmers to
obtain the best results from their lands.
The drift of young men and women froin farms to towns,
thereby reducing the number of original producers.
Nonscientific farming.
Carelessness in the housing and protection of tools and ma-
chinery.
Lack of proper care in the selection of seed.
Failure to make due return to the soil for what is taken
from it.
Waste of feed on scrub stock, when less feed would maintain
better stock.
Neglect to properly prune, spray, and care for orchards.
Failure to devote sufficient attention to the breeding and
care of poultry.
But here and there In every locality scientific farmers are
setting an example to their neighbors, and the grade of farm-
ing is constantly rising.
In my judgment the farmer is receiving only a fair price
for what he has to sell, but middlemen are charging too much

for handling and trying to make the public believe the farmer
Is responsible for the prices they charge.
The time has gone by, however, when shifty gentlemen can
take toll of the farmer and toll out of the consumer and fool
both at the same time.
For years the farmer has been at the mercy of *every trade
combination that sold him supplies or handled his product.
Now he is prosperous and is not obliged to dump his crops
upon the market the next day after harvest to stop interest on
some debt, but he can hold or sell as his judgment dictates, and
by means of the telegraph and the telephone and free mail de-
livery he is in touch with the markets of the world-in touch
with the thought of the world.
The farmer has come into his own, and I am glad of It.
He has been caricatured by cheap city humorists, preyed upon
by grasshoppers, locusts, and money sharks, and misled by
predatory politicians. Now he is able to take care of himself.
He Is one of the safest, soundest, cleanest elements in our
civilization.
The city would have dried up, rotted, or exploded but for the
country that came to town day before yesterday.
Too much of the country has been coming to town though.
It Is said that 50 per cent of our population is being congested
in cities and towns. That movement ought to stop, and the
people who live in alleys and work in sweat shops ought to be-
gin to learn that there is work to be had on farms at fair wages
under healthier and happier conditions.
With free rural-mail delivery, the farmer reads the daily
papers now, yellows and all, but he is learning to discriminate
between them, and he still represents the sober second thought
of the country.
And throughout the country, green with its forests and mead-
ows, golden with its harvests, the country home, where the old-
fashioned virtues of honesty, frugality, and.clean living are still
taught and practiced, constitutes the bulwark and safety of our
Republic.
COLD STORAGE AND UNSCRUPULOUS DEALERS.
The cold-storage system, while performing a beneficial func-
tion, is also held in part responsible for high prices. It pre-
serves foods and preserves prices. It buys and receives com-
modities in time of normal plenty and carries them into a
time of normal dearth, thereby decreasing supply in time of
plenty and controlling supply in time of dearth.
The Boston Herald states that:
According to a statement recently made by the president of the
American Warehouseman's Association, 1.500,000,000 eggs were in cold
storage the 1st of September, being held there in order that the egg
market might be controlled and the price of eggs kept at a high level.
It is said with equal authority that a similar amount of butter was
being held In cold storage for similar purposes. In other words, $55,-
000,000 worth of food products were withdrawn from the markets of
the country and an arbitrarily high level created which had no con-
nection with the law of supply and demand, which should be the rul-
ing force in an open and competitive market. * * * With the
facilities of storage a sufficient amount of the natural market can be
withdrawn at any time to create an effectual corner and to put prices
at any desired point.
According to figures taken from the Ice and Refrigeration
Blue Book by the New York World, there are now held in
558 cold-storage plants 14,000,000 cattle, 6,000,000 calves, 25,-
000,000 sheep and lambs, 50,000 hogs, which makes "one entire
animal for each adult in the United States, with enough whole
animals left over to give two to each family."
The cold-storage system makes it possible, if not customary,
for the frozen remains of an ancestor to remain in cold sus-
pense until its progeny has grown to middle age, and then for
them to meet in fricasseed reunion on some bill of fare, both
as strictly fresh.
Other causes assigned are (1) that unscrupulous dealers
raise prices, alleging that duties have been raised, when duties
have not been raised; (2) that dealers take advantage of an
increased demand to unduly raise prices; and (3) that the re-
tail business in large cities is overdone.
Secretary Wilson argues that 20 or more small shops divide
the retail business within a given area that could be served by
one large shop, and that customers therefore pay for rent, clerk
hire, and delivery service of 20 shops when one large shop could
do the business. This proceeds upon the assumption that a
local monopoly would charge less than a local combination. I
say combination, because, as a rule, there is such a coincidence
in prices among dealers as to raise the presumption that there
is no competition among them.
And yet these are not the people who live in palaces and own
private yachts.
AN ANCIENT PROBLEM.
This question of prices is not new.
In the reign of Edward III they passed the statute of la-
borers, which undertook to regulate wages and prices of food.

1910.'

6549



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0858.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

In the same reign they undertook to define by law what men
should eat and what they should wear.
In the same reign they passed laws against engrossing, fore-
stalling, regrating, and badgering, by which buying and selling
at wholesale and holding for a rise was made a crime, and they
were repealed in the reign of George III, because they discour-
aged growth and enhanced prices.
In the reign of Edward IV they tried to define by law "the
length and breadth of cloth to be sold."
In the reign of Edward VI they passed laws to punish
"victualers" who conspired to sell victuals too high, and to
punish laborers who had "confederated in respect to their
work."
In the reign of Elizabeth they tried again to fix by law
"wages according to the plenty, scarcity, or necessity In re-
spect to the time."
In 1777 the Continental Congress recommended that the sev-
eral States appoint commissioners "to regulate and ascertain
the price of labor, manufactures, internal produce, and com-
modities imported from foreign parts; * * * also to regu-
late the charges of innholders," and several of the States passed
such laws and then repealed them, because, as the governor of
Rhode Island declared, they resulted in an " almost entire stop
of vending the necessaries of life."
HURRY AND CONGESTION.
The whole situation is filled with contradictions. The air is
filled with bickerings to locate the blame for high prices, which
everybody likes when they are coming his way.
Bills, resolutions, investiga tions, commissions, boycotts, anti-
meat societies, antiegg societies, antifood-trust societies, and
vegetarian societies occupy the headlines.
And in the midst of it all gentlemen on the other side, after
their time-honored custom, are going about diligently trying to
convert discontent into votes.
"And the thing that hath been is that which shall be" until
the millenium dawns and the voice of the leather-lunged dema-
gogue is no longer heard in the land.
I have undertaken to discuss only two questions-the tariff
and prices. Other questions are crowding for consideration
and we are doing our best to solve them.
We can not solve them all at once though, and some ques-
tions are beyond legislative solution and must await the slow
solution of time and evolution.
We have grown in territory, population, wealth, and the com-
plexity of our problems far beyond the foresight of our founders.
From an occasional mill seated inI parochial content upon the
bank of some stream with its village surroundings, " keeping
time to the click of the nill," we now have about 600,000 fac-
tories, employing about 6,000,000 people, keeping time to the
demands of 90,000,000 people.
From 23 miles of railroad in 1830 we have 235,000 miles of
railroad now, over which 57,000 locomotives are hauling 2,000,000
freight cars loaded with the products of the prosperity of
90,000,000 people, the value of whose products is increased or
diminished accordingly as men are employed or unemployed or
partly employed.
From an occasional steamboat creeping along our shores and
Inland waters in 1S30 great ships now ply like ferries between
the continents.
The average business man does business with a telephone at
one ear, a stenographer at each elbow, a telegraiph office next
door, a wireless station within easy reach, and an automobile
at the door, and before many years he will want a flying
machine to avoid the crush in the street below.
To paraphrase Carlyle, the proper epic of the world is
no longer "arms and the man;" it is tools and the man, ma-
chinery and the man, money and the man.
To define and regulate "the rights of persons and the rights of
things" in all their complicated relations and ramifications, the
Supreme Court, tie circuit courts, and the district courts of the
United States, and the courts of 46 States, 4 Territories, the
District of Columbia, the Canal Zone, Porto Rico, and the
Philippine Islands are grinding out decisions, and the States
and the Territories and the districts and the territory "ap-
purtenant to and belonging to" the United States are making
new laws, until our system of jurisprudence is getting to be
what Cromwell said the laws of England were, "a tortuous
and ungodly jumble."
"Times are changed and we are changed with them." The
Impersonal, unmaternal, wholesale incubator has become the
mother of the chickbn and a type of some conditions.
Federated plants managed by salaried intermediaries are re-
quired to produce the largest possible results at the lowest pos-
sible cost, and the old personal and direct relation between
employer and employee has necessarily become a thing of the
past.

We are getting farther and farther away from the ground,
and farther and farther away from the old fundamental human
relations that sustain and console folks, bind them together,
and make them an invincible whole. I say this notwithstanding
the fact that we are spending more for charity and the allevia-
tion of misfortune than ever before.
The world is getting smaller by reason of the annihilation of
distance, but we.are not getting closer together except in great
emergencies.
Here In America we are always going somewhere and going
very fast, and we generally go our ways separately, although
we jostle one another on the sidewalk.
This is an age of hurry and congestion and* steam enginism.
We run the machine and the machine runs us.
It is also an age of great exploitation. Our statistical out-
put amazes and delights us. We never question It unless it
does not seem big enough, and we have only recently begun
to consider whether our resources are inexhaustible.
rOLITICS, MEN, AND LEADERS OF MEN.
But invention, machinery, and money do not wholly measure
the world's progress. In the long run unmechanical, unmer-
cenary ideas, and principles are the things that count most.
The most powerful influence for the regeneration and prog-
ress of the world came from a little barren province of Rome
some two thousand years ago, long before the uses of steam
and electricity had been dreamed of.
The machine, the factory, the statue, the painting, the law,
is the visible shape which the thought takes on.
In this way the thought becomes a visible fact. In this way
the talk on the street to-day becomes the law to-morrow, and in
a free country it makes its way to the statute books through the
instrumentality of politics.
Politics is a mere human association and the association is
seldom better than the men who compose it-sometims it Is
worse-but it is the best means known to men for the sifting
and winnowing of political principles.
• Politics means parties, and parties mean the people, and
parties have to have leaders and chief priests and scribes and
pharisees and camp followers apparently.
But there is no country in the world where the Individual citi-
zen, the average man, is more Intimately associated with the
purposes and ideals of his government than here in America,
and the time has gone by when the common people-the rank
and file-formed the unregarded background for the exploita-
tion of the few.
I was up in Maine a few weeks ago, and they told me a say-
ing of Hannibal Hamlin. Ile was asked why his leadership
was uniformly successful, and lie said:
Well, I look over my shoulder every once In a while to see how they
want to be led.
This is the golden age of the spot-light, opera-bouffe, whirling-
dervish form of politician, who leads for a while.
But the true leader of to-day or to-morrow, whoever he may
be, can never win success for himself or for any party unless he
seeks to build party success upon fundamental principles of
right.
He must stand for things that are close to the hearts and con-
sciences of men.
He must be in touch with inca-not machines.
He must be a man among men, touched with the feeling of
their infirmities, but helpful to aid them in their infirmities.
He must be inspired by the breath of their inspirations.
He must interpret them to themselves, and when he speaks
they must feel their thought expressed through him.
And when he acts and decides, after the tide of public opinion
has swept this way and that, it must be as if he announced and
sealed the public judgment as the incarnate representative of the
collective spirit of the average man.
Powerful influences are stirring among the people, but so
long as the best in men is uppermost, and so long as the best
men are uppermost among men we shall go forward on the up
grade.
The wealth of this country depends upon the labor of the
average man. It also depends upon the ability of the excep-
tional man to multiply the value of the products of the labor
of the average man, and both are entitled to their reward.
But three things, I believe, the people of this country have
definitely determined upon-one, that there shall not grow up
among us a privileged class which shall be above the law;
another, that this Government shall wisely control ien and
associations of men; and another that the people shall control
the Government to the end that this Nation. the first ini human
history to be "consecrated to liberty and dedicated to the propo-
sition that all men are created equal," shall not fail of its high
mission among men.

6550

MAY 19,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0859.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-iOUSE.

APPENDIX.
The following table shows--
1. The average retail prices of certain articles of common use In the
fourth district of Michigan for the months of February, 1890, 1900, and
1910, and average prices of the same articles in Windsor, Ontario, In
May, 1910; also the reductions or increases In duties in the Payne law
as compared with the Dingley law. Where no reduction or Increase is
indicated, there has been no change of rates.
2. That of 58 articles of common use in the fourth district of Michi-
gan and in Windsor, Ontario, the average prices of 36 articles are higher
in Windsor than in the fourth district, the average prices of 14 articles
are lower In Windsor than In the fourth district, and the prices of 3
articles are the same. On 5 items accurate comparison is impossible,
by reason of misunderstanding of Inquiries or differences In basis of
calculation.

B u tter  ------- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - *
Eggs -----------_----------
Flour ----- per 100 pounds--
Sugar. refined ----------------
Beans ............ per quart--
Molasses ------ per gallon.
Tra_---------------------
coffee -----------------------
Kerosene -----------
Potatoes --------------------
Beef:
Roasts ------------------
Porterhouse ------------
Sirloin. ----------------
Round -------------------
Pork:
Hams -------------------
Sausages -----------------
Fresh pork ------------
Salt side pork ------------
Mutton:
Roasts -------------- --
Chops ...................
Live stock:
B eef  -------------- ------
Mutton ------------------
Pork ....................
Suits, low-priced -----------
Hats -----..................
Shirts .......................
Underwear -------------------
Gloves .......................
Shoes:
Ladies' -----------------
Men's ...................
Children's ...............
Wood:
Hard --------------------
Soft --------------------
Coal:
Anthracite .............
Bituminous --------------
Plows:
Riding ------------------
Walking ----------------
Harrows ....................
Cultivators ..................
Mowers ---------------------
Rakes -------
Binders ----------------------
Wagons, farm ..............
Buggies, medium--..-------
Wheat -------------.-.---
Corn ------------------------
Oats ------------------------
Rye ------------ --. --....
Lumber:
2 by 4 ............... 
2 by6 ...................
2 by 8 ----------------
2  by  10 -------------------
2 by 12 .................
Sheathing .............
Flooring ...............
Siding  -------------------
Shingles -----------------
L ath  -------------------_

- Reduction, $1.95 to $1.90.
b Free under both laws.

$0.15
.12
2.35
.00
.06
.40
.50
.26
.12
.40
.08
.12
.11
.10
.10
.09
.00
.09
.11
.12
.028
.037
.086
11.00
2.00
.85
1.00
.90
2.25
2.40
1.10
1.60
1.15
6.90
4.05
37.50
12.00
14.00
16.00
44.00
20.00
13.00
56.00
53.00
.78
.36
.24
.43
10.80
11.40
11.80
U.80
11.90
9.60
17.00
15.00
2.60
2.65

$0.18
.18
2.20
.055
.07
.45
.50
.21
.10
.50
.10
.13
.13
.10
.12
.10
.10
.09
.12
.13
.032
.039
.046
11.75
2.00
.85
1.10
1.00
2.40
2.75
1.35
2.00
1.30
6.75
4.05
37.50
11.25
11.50
16.00
43.50
21.00
120.00
57.00
54.00
.67
.40
.28
.47
15.00
16.00
16.00
16.15
16.35
13.60
21.80
19.30
2.85
4.05

$0.28
.28
3.15
.00
.08
.50
.50
.22
.10
.45
.12
.16
.15
.13
.16
.13
.14
.14
.10
.15
.049
.053
.087
15.00
2.35
1.00
1.25
1.25
3.00
5.25
1.60
2.60
1.80
7.65
5.05
41.00-
11.50
12.00
17.00
46.00
24.00
130.00
69.00
61.00
1.20
.62
.47
.76
20.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
21.40
16.50
25.15
22.60
8.50
4.55

$0.315
.22
3.15
.055
.09
71 .50
.43
.325
.18
.50
.15
.19
.18
.15
.21
.15
.19
.15
.165
-  .165
.11
*    .145
.125
d5.00
1.50
1.375
1.375
1.375
2.50
8.00
.75
8.00
8.0
7.00
6.00
45.00
13.00
14.75
19.15
50.00
31.00
135.00
60.00
85.00
1.00
.60
.35
.65
24.00
24.00
24.00
24.00
24.00
20.50
32.50
27.50
3.50
5.00

(b)
(b)

25
20
25 --   -
25 --   -

60.

(b)

25  ..--

- Free, and countervailing duty removed.
4 And up.

NOTE.-The price of butter at Windsor, 31h, cents, Is an average between the
price of dairy butter, which is 30 cents, and creamery butter, which is 33 cents.
The price of flour at Windsor, $3.15 per 100 pounds, is an average between
the price of flour made from Ontario wheat, $2.75, and the price of that made
from wheat from the Northwest, $3.50. "
The price of suits at Windsor is the price of the lowest grade sold there.
The American price is for an average ready-made suit.
The price of wood as given at Windsor is the price for a cord of 4-foot
wood, whereas the American price is for 18-inch wood.
The prices of live stock as given at Windsor are evidently for dressed car-
casses, and not for live stock on the hoof, for which the American prices are
given.

Mr. TAWNEY. Mr. Chairman, I now yield to the gentleman
from California [Mr. McLACHLAr].
Mr. McLACHLAN of California. Mr. Chairman, the follow-
ing resolution has been introduced by me for the consideration
of this House:
House resolution 707.
Resolved, That the Secretary of War be, and he is hereby, directed,
if not incompatible with the public interest, to submit to this House,
with the least practicable delay, a report showing in detail-
First. The condition of the military forces and defenses of the
Nation, including the organized militia.
Second. The state of readiness of this country, with particular refer-
ence to its preparedness to repel invasion if attempted (a) on the
Atlantic or Gulf coasts ; or (b) on the Pacific coast.
Third. The additional forces, armaments, and equipments necessary,
if any, to afford reasonable guaranty against successful invasion of the
United States territory in time of war.
THE PROBLEM OF PEACE.
The problems of war, Mr. Chairman, have largely concerned
the world since the beginning of recorded time.
This resolution is concerned only with the problems of peace,
or, the greatest problem of all, the preservation of peace.
I want to emphasize this at the outset, lest not only this res-
olution, which I hope this body will adopt without division that
might give it political coloring, but what I shall say in its sup-
port be taken as a sign of rampant militarism instead of wise
national precaution. I have given not a little thought to this
subject and reached a conclusion that I believe must be reached
by any man who gives any serious study to it; but I have pur-
posely waited for its introduction until a time when it could
not be connected with any public excitement aroused by
strained relations between this country and any other. It is a
time of profound peace.
Nowhere, for the moment at least, are nations engaged in
open hostilities. So far as known, there is nothing in our rela-
tions with any other nation that indicates the possibility of
armed conflict. I have waited for such a time in the hope that
the subject might be treated not less seriously, but more dis-
passionately, than at a time when the feelings of the whole
or any section of this country are aroused by thoughts of war
or by the irritation always manifest in times of national dif-
ferences.
Within twelve years there have been three wars in which the
greatest, the most powerful, the most civilized nations have been
engaged. The echoes of the greatest war of modern times, if not
of all history, have hardly ceased to sound. Surely the world
should be surfeited with blood for years to come. Seemingly
there never was a period when the industrial activities of the
world so demanded peace as now. Certainly there never was a
time when the foes of war were more actively engaged n the
propaganda of peace.
Yet, notwithstanding that peace is world-wide, that every
industrial sign points to the desirability of its continued main-
tenance, that civilization seems to have reached a point where
war is unthinkable, rumors of war still arise and challenge both
industry and civilization. And these rumors are heard around
the world. They are manifest in South America. Europe is not
free from them. The restlessness in the Indian Empire is a
cause not merely of British but of world uneasiness. The
new power that has arisen out of two wars in the Orient stands
militantly ready to defend the place she has secured. Her de-
feated opponent, neither forgetting nor forgiving, is preparing
to take advantage of the first opportunity that arises to regain
what she has lost. I do not state these things as charges, I re-
peat them merely as rumors. I hope they are rumors only; but
they come to us from every quarter, they come with increasing
frequency, and we, no less than others, must take some note of
them and, if necessary, prepare for whatever they may portend.
Even China, asleep for centuries, is aroused and preparing by
her own military might to defend her territory against further
aggression. Nor are we outside of these rumors. On the con-
trary, we loom large in nearly all of them.
PACIFIC OCEAN ZONE OF WORLD STaUGGLO.
Fortunately isolated for the first century of our national life,
wars and rumors of war beyond the confines of the western con-
tinents troubled us little.
To-day we must recognize that all this has changed. Rela-
tively we are nearer to Asia to-day than we were to Europe
forty years ago. The field of progress in the world's develop-
ment, moreover, has changed from the Atlantic to the Pacific.
The prophecy of William H. Seward has come true. The inter-
est of the world now centers in the Pacific Ocean, and of what
shall occur there during the next half century, more than
that it is likely to be the pivot of the world's commercial and
political activities, no man is wiseenough to say. But it needs
no prophet to assure us that in whatever takes place we shall
be unavoidably involved.

1910.

6551

I



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0860.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

It is not alone that, we have possessions now stretching across
the western sea to the east itself, but whether this were true
or. not, our trade relations are such that no change can take
place now in the Orient without affecting us. Unpleasant as it
may be to some of us still believing in the isolation in which
the strength of our national youth was bred, this fact is clear:
Whatever the struggles, political, commercial, or military, we
can not hold ourselves aloof.
It is not from blatant militarism, then; It is not from vain
pride in our strength or resources; it is not from selfish fear
of evil consequences to ourselves alone that we should seek
now by careful study to foresee as far as possible what our
part In this development, in these struggles, is to be.
There may have been those who believed that this Nation
arose solely as an example of what a free nation should be-
concerned only with its own interior development, only with
the life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness of those who seek its
shores; but I believe that it was created for a greater part even
than this.
Just as some men achieve leadership among their fellows, so
some nations, which are but aggregations of men, achieve lead-
ership among nations. Whether designed by those who planned
this Government, whether dreamed of by those who have given
their lives and labors that this Nation might survive and de-
velop, we have reached a leading place among the powers of
the world, and we can no more shirk the duties of leadership
in a political sense than we can stem the tide of our commer-
cial development.
. I believe that destiny would mark this Nation for greater
things than we have yet perceived, yet I tremble lest in folly
we change the course that destiny would fix.
* We are proud now of our strength.
We like to believe ourselves invincible.
That victory has rested finally with us in every war we have
waged is proof to us in our blindness that victory will always
rest with us in the end. 'Perhaps it may. I hope earnestly
that It may, but I believe with equal earnestness that were war
to come In the near future with any one of the several great
powers a humiliating defeat would be our portion.
Yet, though I am not alone in this belief, I do not desire
to be considered an alarmist.
Whether I am right or wrong matters little, but what matters
much Is that this body and the people that this body represents
have not only a right to know but a duty to ascertain whether
these fears be true or false. I. come from a part of the country
that feels this necessity now perhaps more than any other.
The Pacific States feel with an earnestness unknown farther
east that the degree of readiness of this country to resist at-
tack should be known; and if it be found that this degree is in-
sufficient, then that whatever steps are necessary to assure a
reasonable immunity should be taken without delay. I am not
speaking unadvisedly or in recollection simply of conditions
now past. Only recently, in private correspondence as well as
through the public press, my own knowledge of this feeling has
