The SPE  A  R. On the motion that the House now adjourn the
yeas are 19, the nays 145. The House refuses to adjourn; and, the
hour of three o'clock having arrived,'the Chair, in obedience to the
order of the House adopted this morning, declares a recess until half
past seven o'clock this evening.
EVENING SESSIOX.
The recess having expired, the House reassembled at half past seven
o'clock p. m.
DISTRICT CODE.
The SPEAKER. The session of this evening is for the purpose of
considering the bill known as the District code bill.
Mr. HUNTON. I move that the House resolve itself into Committee
of the Whole for the further consideration of the bill to establish a
municipal cede for the District of Columbia, and pending that motion
I move that all debate on the pending substitute offered by the gentle-
man from Illinois [Mr. Tow.snmm)j be limited to thirty minutes.
The motion to limit debate was agreed to.
The motion that the House resolve itself into Committee of the
Whole was agreed to.
The House accordingly resolved itself into Committee of the Whole,
X-222

3537

IC

(Mr. Bumows in the chair,) and resumed the consideration of the
bill (H. R. No. 5541) to establish a municipal code for the District of
Columbia.
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair would state that, properly, before
the substitute of the gentleman from Illinois is considered, that por-
tion of the text of the bill which it is proposed to strike out should
be perfected. The Chair would suggest that there arc seven pages
of this bill which should be considered, and, if necessary, amended,
before the substitute is considered.
Mr. HUNTON. Before we enter upon the consideration gd that
question I desire, by unanimous consent of the committee, to offer
an amendment under the head of exemptions. My attention has been
called to the fact that there is an omission in the list of exemptions.
Mr. Corcoran's Louise Home has never been taxed, I believe, silce its
erection except two years. After having been for some years exempt
from taxation, it was first taxed about 1874 for two years in succes-
sion, since which time it has been exempted. It is purely a charita-
ble institution. At the end of the eighth line, on page 3 ,1 move to
insert a provision to exempt from taxation the Louise Home of Mr.
Corcoran.
Mr. REAL. My recollection is that when the sub-committee was
drafting this section they had under consideration the question of ex-
emptin this institution, and there were reasons which suggested
themselves to the sub-committee which prevented them from naclud-
ing it among exempt property. Now, while this is a charitable insti-
tution in one sense of the word, it is not in another. It is true it is a
home for a certain class of widows; but only a certain class can get
into that home-- genteel" widows. The management does not ad-
mit everybody or persons from every section of the country. It is a
sort of exclusive affair. It does not seem to me that it ought to be
exempt. If the Committee of the Whole shall vote to exempt it I
give notice I shall call for a vote in the House and elicit the facts in
regard to the matter.
Mr. HUNTON. I trust the committee will not refuse to exempt
this property. Insteadof being a source of revenue to the proprietor
of it, on the contrary it is an expense of i30,000 or . 10,000 a year to
him. It is one of the most beautiful charities I know of. This is a
charity, no doubt, by Mr. Corcoran, who has donb more in the shape
of charities to build up art in this city than any twenty people in the
city of Washington. I think it would be hard to impose a tax upon
this property, which, instead of being a source ofiacome to him, costs
over .$ 30,000 or 640,000 a year.
Mr. ROBINSON. Will the gentleman tell the committee under
what provision the exemption has been made heretofore ? He sosaks
of this property having been taxed for two years and then esexpted
from taxation. If he is familiar with the provision under which the
exemption has been made I should like him to state it.
Mr. HUINTON. What do you mean
Mr. ROBINSON. Thegentleman has stated this property has been
exempted from taxation for a period. If before that time it was sub-
jected to taxation the exemption must have been in conformity to
some law.
Mr. HUNTON. I said so.
Mr. ROBINSON. What is that law?
Mr. HUNTON. I cannot turn to it.
Mr. CLAFLIU. It was done by special act last year, my friend
will remember.
Mr. BUCKER. I can answer the question of the gentleman from
Massachusetts. Several acts were passed affecting taxation and the
rights of property so far as the public are concerned, since I have had
the honor of a seat in this House. Some exemptions had been over-
looked. At one time all the churches of the city were subjected to
taxation. That was done under a law which evidently through an
inadvertence included them as subject to taxation. Relief by subse-
quent acts has been granted in those cases. By the bill wbich I had
the honor to present herelt was provided that church property used
for church purposes should be exempted. Prior to that time all prop-
erty, including parsonage and lots attached thereto, were exempted.
There have been frequent changes in this respect. ThisLoulsolfome
was not exempted, through inadvertence evidently, and it seems to
me, notwithstanding the remark made sy the gentleman from Ohio.
the property should be exempted from all taxation. It may be asec-
tional charity.
Mr. HUNTON. I did not say that.
Mr. BUCKNER, I say that.
Mr. RUNTON. It is not that.
3r. BUCKNER. -Very well; I will not say that, but it is trne that
this charity was organized for the benefit of the people who were
veed up and impoverished by the war; refined and elegant ladies who
were left penniless.
If there is objection this is not universal but that it is a charity
exceptional in its character,thc same objection would apply to a great
many of the best charities in the world. They cannot talce in the
whole world, all classes, colors, and descriptions. It does not seem
to me that should be any objection. That it is a charity, doing good
work for those who need help, ought to bo sufficient; and that 'r.
Corcoran's memory will be blessed hereafter, as it is now by every one
knowing anything of him and what he has done, is beyond al ques-
tion. 1 thin  his property should be exempted and hope the amend-
ment will be adopted.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0537.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

Mr. ROBINSON. I heartily agree with making the proposed ex-
emption. It seems, fron what my colleague haa said, it has been
done recently by an act of Congress.
Mr. HUNTON. Wherever property of this character has been taxed
through inadvertence, when the attentionof Congress has been called
to the fact, the exemption has been provided for.
Mr. ANDERSON. .1 suggest to the gentleman from Ohio to with-
draw his objection to this amendment. There is the same reason, so
far as the State is concerned or the Union, in exempting this property
there isju exempting church property.
Mr. Hur.rorx's amendment was agreed to.
Mr. NEAL. I want, on page 39, to call the attention of the com-
mittee to another matter which, it seems to me, should be amended.
It is there provided that the Corcoran Art Gallery, with the works of
art contained therein, and all real estate now owned bythe trustees
of said institution, shall be exempt from taxation. When that clause
was drawn it was understood by the sub-committee the only real
estate owned by the CorcoranArt Gallery was alittle piece of ground
adjoining, or nearly adjoining, the building, which, when they had
aegnired title to the next piece of property from Admiral Leo, was
intended to be used in the construction of an addition to the Art Gal-
lery.
The CHAIRMAN. What ia the gentleman's amendment?
Mr. NEAL. I move to strike out in the clause to which I have re-
ferred the words "and all real estate now owned by said institu-
tion." "It was understood, sir, when the sub-committee drafted this
exemption all the real estate then owned by the Corcoran Art Gal-
lery was the tract of land on which the galleryis located and another
email lot adjoining one owned byAdmiral Lee, which it was expected
the trustees would acquire, and that on both lots an addition to the
gallery would be constructed. But I have been informed by citizens
of Washington since then this institution has foreclosed mortgages
on real estate upon which it made loans and bid thepropertyin, and
that it is to-day renting that property and using it as a source of
profit. It does seem to me property of that kind should not be ex-
empted, for, if we begin to exempt it, tberesult will bothat one-half
of the property here would be exempt for similar reasons.
MrllUNTON. I 'vill suggest to my friend from Ohio not to strike
out the language indicated by his amendment, but to reach the evil
which he complains of by adding to the section, afterthe words " and
all real estate now owned by said institution," the words "and used
therefor."
Mr. NEAL. I have no objection to accepting that as a modification
of my amendment.
The CHAIRMAN. The Clerkwillreport the amendment proposed
by the gentleman from Virgnia.
The Clerk read as follows:
After the word 'institution," in the seventh line, add the words "and used
therefor;" so that if amended, the section will read:
"The Corcoran Art Gallery. with the-works of art co ntainedtberein, and all real
estate now owned by said institution and used therefor."
The amendment was agreed to.
The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will now read chapter 6, on page 67,
section 187.
Mr. NEAL. An amendment was offered by the gentleman from
Illinois, [Mr. TowxsnEND,] who is not now in his seat. His amend-
ment appliesto thesesections, and I will suggest that perhaps it will
be well to wait till he comes in.
The CHAIRMAN. This portion of the bill has not yet been read.
Mr. NEAL. I would suggest that we pass over this for a moment.
The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will read the sections, after which
amendments can be inserted.
The Clerk read as follows:
CuArrt VI-
FORFEITED AnDS.
Sac. 187. lo property advertised as provided insectlon 188 shall be sold upon
any bids not sufficient to meet the amounts of tax, penalty, and costs; ajod in case
thehighest bid upon any proerty is not sufficient to meet the taxes, penalty, and
costs thereon, said property sha thereupon be bid off by tie said commissioners,
or their successors in effe,in the name of the Districtof Columbia; but thepr
erty so bid off shall not be exempted Tram assessment and taxation, but sa  be
assessed and taxed as other property; and if within two years thereafter such
property lis not redeemed by the owner or owners thereof, by the payment of the
taxes, penalties, and costs due at the time of the offer of the sale, and that may
have acoroed after tiat dote, and 10 per cent. per annum thereon, or if any prop-
erty, two years after having been so bid off at any sale whatever in the name of
said District, under this or any other law, and whether heretofore or hereafter
made, is not or has not been so redeemed as aforesaid, thou the same shall be held
forfeited to the District, and thenceforth all the right, title, claim, and interest of
the former owner shallbe considered as transferred to and vestedin the District
to be disposed of as may be by law provided. Anrd all such lands shall be keopt
upon the tax list and the taxes thereon regularly ase0sd until the same shalt
n~ave been legally disposed of. lint if the former owner shall, at ang time before
the District may have disposed of the saae,pay to the collector el  t e taxes, pen-
alides, and rest for which the same may hays been sold and which h ave since se-
emued thorcon, the Distriot shall in such case, relinquish to such former owner ant
claim to such land or lot an said land or lot shall be re-entered upon the tax list
in the name of the former owner.
Mr. CONGER.      M. Chairman, I wisho call the attention of the
gentleman from Vfrisi to one clause of this section which has been
read. I do not think it is right that lands that may have been bid
of" under this or any other law at any sale whatever in the name of
the District and have not been redeemed-I saylI do not think that is
a just proposition to put into this bill

Mr. HUNTON. I do not understand what propositioft the gentle-
man refers to.
Mr. CONGER. I refer to the seventeenth line, on page 68.
Tho CHAIRMAN. Will the gentleman from Michigan indicate his
amendment?
Mr. CONGER. I merely offered the amendment in order to get
some informationin referenceto this point, but necessarymyamend-
ment will be to strike out the words "under this or any other law,
and whether heretofore or hereafter made." It seems to me that this
is an unjust provision.
M1r. NEAL. If the gentleman from Virginia will allow me to ex-
plain this matter-
Mr. CONGER. That is the very object in view in offering the
amendment.
Mr. NEAL. I think I can make it clear tothe gentleman that it is
not as unjust as it seems to be on first sight. There has been from
time to time property sold in this District which has been bid off
under former laws of the District of Columbia, as provided for in this
law. That becomes the property of the District under the present
law, and we provide here, nowithstanding this fact, that this prop-
erty shall be held as forfeited property, and we give the owner a
suitable time to redeem the same by paying the tax, penalties, and
costs accrug thereon, with an additional 10 per cent. added.
Mr. HUNTON. And this gives two year§ after having been so bid
off.
Mr. NEAL. Yes, sir; two years after.
Mr. CONGER. Still that sale may have been entirely different from
the provisions that this law establishes; for instance, a provision in
which the property would go to the District if the tax had not been
paid upon it, and-
Mr. NEAL. Let me explain further. That must have occurred
two years ago, and the party had all that time to redeem his property.
In the next section we provide that this property on the first Mion-
day inNovember of each year shall be &vertised for sale as forfeited
lands, and on that sale the bidder may bid on it any sum that he
chooses, the highest bidder taking the property, and on that the com-
missioner shall give him a good and sufficient dead which will convey
a valid title to the holder of the property. But we provide further
that within one year after that time a minor or other owner who may
have been laboring under legal disabilities shall have time to come
in and redeem the property.
Mr. HUNTON. I do not see how it can be more liberal than it is.
Under the provision of this law it is one year before the sale can be
made. If the District becomes the purchaser it is two years before
it can make the deed to it or sell it after it becomes delinquent; then
there is another year allowed for the redemption of it; so that about
four years' time elapses before the tax title can be made good. Four
years' time is certainly long enough; and unless some provision is
made to compel parties to pay their taxes upon their property or else
hold the property liable for the tax, we stay as well give up the idea
of attempting to collect any taxes whatever in the District.
Mr. CON GE. I withdraw the amendment. I only wanted to
obtain some explanation in reference to this matter.
Mr. ROBINSON. I renew the amendment for the purpose of ask-
ing a, question. I understand the gentleman from Ohio to say that
the words in the fourteenth and fifteenth lines, "two years after
having been so bid off at any sale whatever in the name of said Dis-
trit," were intended to cover instances of sales made heretofore
under some prior law. I wish to call attention to the fact that the
beneficial operations of this section would not apply to sales made
longer than two years'ago; for in that time, by this section, forfeit-
ure will have taken place. I simply call attentionto this for the pur-
pose of getting a reply to it.
Mr. NEAL. It couldnot be n bar until after a sale has been made.
Mr. HUNTON. Under this act ?
. Mr. NEAL. Yes, under this aetna provided in section 188.
Mr. ROBINSON. I ask the gentleman from Ohio to weigh these
words:
Bid offat any sle whatcver in the name of said District under this or any other
law, and whether heretofore or hereafter made.
Now, the words "heretofore made" will of course apply to any sale
that has been made heretofore within two years last past.
Mr. NEAL. Or ten years. The object is to provide some way to
finally close up these outstanding tax matters; and the committee
could not devise any better scheme than this. We require all the
property heretofore bid off in the name of the District of Columbia to
go upon what is known as'the forfeited-land list~ and upon the first
Monday of November annuallya list of these lands shall be prepared,
with all thetaxes, penalties, costs, andinterest due or assessed thereon,
as provided in section 188, andthe same shall be printed in pamphlet
with notice of sale, as is provided for the publication of sale of de-
linquent lands in section 181.
Mr. ROBINSON. The gentleman from Ohio will pardon me. He
does not get my point. I am either entirely wrong or some other
provison is required. Is it the fact that sales have been made in this
District at any time prior to two years ago and bid off in the name
of the District?
Mr. NEAL. That is a question it is imposgible for me to answer.
I presume that is the case.
Mr. ROBINSON. Now assume a piece of property was bid off three

3538

MAy 19,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0538.txt

CONGRESSIONAL kECORD---HOUSE.

years ago. This section will not afford any relief to the former owner
of that property because it says in the fifteenth lin, "if any property
two years after having been so bid off at any sale." If such property
is not redeemed within two years then it is forfeited.
Mr.  EAL. I suggest to the gentleman to move an amendment, so
as to make it read "not less than two years."
Mr. ROBINSON. Does the gentleman see exactly my point?
Dir. NEAL. I do not think the gentleman's point is well taken;
but I have no objection to having the language made more specific.
Mr. ROBINSON. It is not a matter in which I have the slightest
interest. Bat what the gentleman suggests does not cover mypoint.
I am just informed by the gentleman fromMissouri [Mr.BnUCI'rER]
thvt a very large portion of the property in this District was bid off
by the District four years ago. I suggest that the reading go on and
xwo will prepare something at leisure, and not in a hnrry, that will
cover the point.
The CHAIRMNAN. If thecre be no objection, the section will be
passed over for the present.
There was no objection.
The Clerk read as follows:
SLC, IES. The collector of taxe shall annually, on or before the first Monday of
Tees-mber, preIar a list of all lands which may have been so as aforesaid for-
feitcd and not rcdecmed, with all the taes, penalties, costs, and interest duo or
a, e c thereon, and cau- ths samo to be printed in pamphletw.2th notice of sale,
a is. provided for the publication of sale of delinquent land& in section 181. He
shallo aIr, o notice by advertisingin two newspapers printed and of general cir-
eslatisu in the District, that so many ofsaid tracts and lots as are not redeemed
bv the scond londay of Decmber next ensuing Wii be offcred for sale by hi,
ai public, auction, at his el c, in the city of Washinontou, in order to satisf_ such
teaxs, pensltie~. costs, and intercst, and each seular day thereafter between the
hour'  ten o'clock a . a. and tour c'eleckp, as. And ho shall upon sal day and
each 'enlar day thereafttr, between the hours aforeaid, proceed to sell all eaid
tralt :d lots to the lchcst bidder, selling them separatel in the order in which
thcy are arrnged in said pamphlet, whether the amount so bid is sufficient to pay
tho tax.e , pcnaltles, e,st, and interest, or not. .ud upon the payment of tWe
aireOnt. a bid the comMisioners shall execute to the purchaser a deed for the
came, which shall bo held to conveys good andindefeasible title inlawand equity:
)Tei r t d, That minors and other persons underlegal disability shall be permitted
to r deem any such tracts or lots so forfeited and sold, from the puachaser thereof,
within one year after the miner may atire at full ago, or after the rern-ial of such
Ic"al ,iiiability, en paymnt of tha purchase-money, tith 50 per cee t annum
iffterrt thcreon, cud hl tases andaeesnto That have beenupaid thereon by the
purchaser or hila-signi between the day of sale and the petted of redemption,
with 10 per cent, per annum interest upin such faxes and ass-ssmeats.
MIr. CONGI&R. I offer the following amendment:
In line 5, after theword" printed," insert the words "and distributed ¢" so thatit
will read;
"And cause the ean.o to ho printed and distributed in pamphlet with notice of
ir. HUNTON. I will say to the gentleman from M ichigan that
the idea of the committee in making this provision was to have these
pamphlets at the office of the District commissioners with notice of
sale so that any person wanting the pamphlet can call and gettY.
Ir. CONGEI. But the disftbution is not distinctly provided for.
Mr. UNTON. It does not say in so many words that they shall
be distributed, hut that is the object of their being printed.    think
It would be well to advertise that the list of these lands is printed
in pamphlet form and that it is at the District office for anybody to
get a copy who wants it.
Mr. BEAL. Let me suggest to the gentleman from Virginia that
this section provides that the list of these lends shall be printed in
pamphlet form with" notice of sale, "as is provided.,   for the publica-
dionuof sale of delinquent lands inoeection18l." Now, sectiou 161 pro-
vides that these pamphiets shall be delivered to any person who may
call for them at the office of the District commissioners.
Mr. HUCONOR. That was the idea we had in     saking this provsis-
ion.
Mr. NEAL. Lot us amend this section so as tomato the same pro-
vision here and we wil accomplish all the gentleman from nichigan
desires.
Mr. HgNTON. If the pamphlets are delivered to all who want
them, a sufficient publication is made.
Mr COGER. It can do ne harm to require that these pamphlets
shall not only he printed but distributed.
The question being taken on Mr. Conun's amendment, it was
agreed to.
Mr. CONGERP. I offer the following amendment :
In lines, after the word "pamphlet " insert the word "oerm."
Thu amendment was agreed to.
Mr.l SfrthmORD. I offer the following amendment:
In line i, strike out the words "a g e and indefeasble tite "and isrt "all
right and title of le delinquent party against whom  ta hat been assesstd."
One word, Mr. Chairman, in reference to that.
ir. WILLITS. I suggest to the gentleman from Alabama that that
might not be any title at all. The tax might be assessed against the
vhreng p-rson. It ought to be made a lien on the property.
Mr. SMNORD. I concede that
Tr. WI-LLioTS. A better amendment would be to make the deed
convey all the right and title that, the DisLtict of Columbia would
have.
Mr. SAMFORD. I have no objection to the amendment suggested
by the gentleman from Michigan, as it carries out the view I am driv-
Mg at
lr. EAL. The very object of this provision is to give the pur-a

chaser a good title to the property. Taxes are assessed not against
the owner of the property, not against the individual, but against the
property itself, and I do not care whether it is taxed in the right name
or not so the property is properly described and the taxes are legally
assessed.
Mr. SAMFORD. Is my friend going to make a speech',
Mr. NEAL. I thought you had got through.
Mr. SAMFORD. Oh, no.
Mr. NEAL. Very well, let me state what I desire to say and then
the gentleman can reply to it. If the property is properly described
and the tax is legally assessed, it does not matter in whose name the
property may stand upon the record. The only way to assess taxes
against real estate is to assess them against the property itself, not
against the individual owner. We have provided in this bill that
where the owner was not known the property should be assessed as
the property of" unknown,"thetax collected against it as "unknown,"
and if not paid then the property was to be forfeited and sold as the
property of an "nnnown" owner.
As I have already said, we give a man a year before his property
becomes delinquent. If he fails to pay the taxes, then we give him
two years after the property is sold at delinquent sale within which
to redeem it; and before a man buying the property at such sale can
acquire a deed he must give sixty days' notice. J2 the property is not
sold for enough to pay the taxes and the penalty, then it is forfeited
to the District, and placed on the forfeited land list and sold a year
afterward.                                    C
Now, it seems to me there should be an end somewhere of these
proceedings by which a purchaser of land at tax sale may have con-
fidenceo that he will either receive his money back or acquire a title
to the property which cannot he disputed. Therefore we provide othat
while in the case of a delinquent land sale the deed shall only be
ynewa faee evidence of title in the case of laud sold as forfeited a
good and indefeasible title shall be given. It seemed to us that it
was necessary that there should be an end some time or other of this
matter, and that at some period, if the land is not redeemed, the pur-
chaser at a tax sale would know that he could acquire a good title
to the land.
Mr. SAIFORD. The amendment offered by the gentleman from
Michigan [Mr. WIarrrs] meets the object which I had in view. It
makesno difference, I submit to the gentleman from Ohio, [Mr. NEL,]
how anxious or desirous he or any one else of us may be to have an
end to what he calls these tax sales. I have no idea that any court
in the United States would ever hold such a title as that to be worth
the paper on which it is written.
In the line of the point which I attempted to make the other night,
it has been decided by the courts that no man in this country can
have his property taken from him without due process of law. Not
only has that been decided, but it is also asserted in the Constitution
of the United States, and perhaps in every State constitution in the
Union. No man is deprived of his property by due process of law who
has not had his day in court. And it is nonsense, it seems to me, and
I say so respectfully, for us to attempt to give a good and indefeasi-
ble title in law and equity without giving a party an opportunity in
court.
I have no objection to the amendment of the gentleman from Mich-
igan [11r. Wixi s] if he offers it as a substitute for mine, and I will
accept it in place of my amendment-to convey to the purchaser at
such sale all the title which the District of Columbia may have, and
the District of Columbia cannot have a particle of title unless it has
complied with all the prerequisites required in the tax law and has
given the partyhis day in court.
It was attempted in ay own State, and I suppose it has been at-
tempted in various other States in the Union and at various times, to
say that by these ep parte notices, if I maybe allowed the expression,
by these publications in newspapers, the owners of this property may
be precluded from ever defending against a tax title. And every
time the touchstone of the law and the Constitution was applied to it
such a law was hold to be extra-constitutional. Therefore, in order
to meet the case, we had to provide by law the machinery of a court
so that a delinquent tax-payer should have served on him a notice
regularly and lawfully, and have an opportunity to come into court
and answer why he should not 1)0 divested of the title to his property
in consequence of his non-payment of the taxes.
You cannot by a mere publication of a notice in a newspaper,
which the party may. never see, divest him of his property. If you
go forward and give such a notice as will bring him into eourt, then
at is not only possible bat it is proper to divest him of his title under
a tax sale.
Mr. WILSLITS. I made no amendment; I merely made a sugges-
tion.
Mr. SAMIFOID. Then I will let my amendment stand.
Mir. HUNTON. I move to strike out the last word, for the purpose
of saying that I trust neither the amendment of the gentleman from
Alabama [Mr. SaoR on] nor the proposed substitute ofthegentleman
from Michigan [lEfr. WrnTars] will be adopted. If either is adopted,
I hope it will be the amendment and not the substitute. Ifthe sub-
stitute shall be adopted, then the sale of laund for taxes will not
amount to a row of pins, if the gentleman will excuseme forsochar-
acterizing his substitute. And I say so for this reason: if you con-
voy only the title which the District commissioners have, then it

1880.

3539



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0539.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

will only lie in my opinion a lien for the taxes, and of course that
will not he worth anything and will not sell for anything. As Inn-
derstand it, that is the whole title that is vested in the District com-
missioners an such cases.
The amendment of the gentleman from Alabama [Mr. SAntroun] is,
as he states, in the line of the amendments he has heretofore offered
to other sections, and which have been voted down. I trust that'this
amendment of my friend from Alabamawill not be adopted. If there
be not some stringent rule as to enforcing tax titles in this District,
we might as well bid farewell to the collection of taxes here against
the land of some persons who never pdy taxes and only laugh when
you attempt to make them pay by a sale. The object of the provis-
ions incorporated in this code by the committee was to remedy this
difficulty, so that such parties may know that when their lands are
taxed they, like other people, must pay the taxes, or if they do not
pay their lands will be sold.
We have provided very carefully for giving to parties -whofail to
pay their taxes the utmost opportunities to redeem their property,
but after they have neglected all the opportunities offered, aLd still
fail to pay their taxes, the land ought to be sold and the purchaser
ou ht to gto a title.
9ir. W.MITS. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate fully the argument
which the gentleman from Virginia [Mr. HU= Oac) presents in regard
to the necessity of making as good a title as possible, but I have grave
doubts whether you can legislate a perfect title on imperfect pro-
ceedings. If youxproceeding are imperfect I think the courts will
set aside the title, notwithstanding you may declare that it shall be
indefeasible.
However, I do not propose to antagonize-that part of the bill, be-
cause gentlemen of the committee sees to be so strenuous in regard
to it; and I am willing for one that they may take the chances in
court upon it. There is one criticism, however, which I wish to sub-
mit. This section proposes to sell the forfeited lands. What are the
forfeited lands? We look to a prior section to see; and here arises
the very same point suggested by the gentleman from Massachusetts.
Now there have been, as is admitted, sales in years past under va-
rious laws, and the lands have been bid in by the District of Colum-
bia, years ago. perhaps without any clause in the law authorizing
for eiture. 'Row, I submit that after the lapse of years (tough the
taxes are still unpaid, it is true) it is not competent for Congress to
pass a bill forfeiting those lands-at least not without giving the
parties interested ample opportunity to redeem them. If a year or
two years-any reasonable 7ime-were given for redemption, I would
not say you might not forfeit the land and give a good title.
Mr. HUNTON. Two years are given.
Mr. WILLITS. I am coming to that. Now we come back to the
point suggested by the gentleman from Massachusetts. Suppose the
sale was made three years ago; there is no time given for redemp-
tion. The bill does not say two years after the passage of the act.
Mr. ROBINSON. I have prepared an amendment to cover that
point.
Mr. WILLITS. I understand that. This much, however, is clear:
no legislation can forfeit lands for the non-payment of taxes until
therehas been time-a reasonable time--in which to pay the taxes or
redeem the property. Now, if sales have been made in past years, it
is not competent for you to declare the lands forfeited under those
sales unless you give reasonable time for redemption, which, as I un-
derstand, is not given by the provisions of this bill.
Mr. PAGE. Do the provisions of the bill apply to lands sold un-
der former laws?
h. WILLITS. They do; they apply to lands sold under any sale
whatever. Therefore, while, as I have said, I am not disposed to
antagonize the principle of this bill in regard to forfeiting lands;
while I am willing that those who are interested in enforcing such
forfeitures should take their chances in court, I do think that the
prior section of the bill ought to be amended so as to provide for rea-
sonable notice before forfeiture shall take place.
Mr. HUNTON. The gentleman from Massachusetts is now prepar-
ing an amendment which may meet the gentleman's objection. I
witbjlraw the pro forma amendment.
Mr. SAMFORD. Does the gentleman from Mihigan [Mr. Wan-
xis] think it possible that a man's title to real estate shall be for-
feited without his having had an opportunity to defend it in some
court ? Can you by legislation provide that the mere proceedings
upon a tax sale shall be all the notice required to forfeit a man's title
and give a good and indefeasible title in law and equity against him?
Mr. WILLITS. I think it perfectly competent to pass a law de-
claring that his rights shall be forfeited provided the proceedings are
all regular.
Mr. SAMFORD. Precisely p I admit that.
ir. WILLITS. If the proceedings are all regular under the tax
sale, then the title is perfect.
The amendment of Mr. SAmtoRD was not agreed to.
Mr. NEAL. I offer the following, to come in afterthe word "equity"
in line 24:
And theproceeds of said sae, after the payment of the taxes, penalties, interest,
and costs, and in excess thereof, shall be paid over by said commissioners to the
former oner of the property so sold, upon demand thereof, the said eommsisioners
taking a receipt thorefor.
The amendment was adopted.

Air. CONGER. I desire to test the sense of the committee on an
amendment. I movb to strike out the words "good and indefeasible"
and in lieu thereof to insert "lrlmafacel." This may be in the law
or not in the law, butyriamfacie title in law or equity is the only re-
sult there can be from the passage of this law in any case. There is
no principle in existence recognized in the court which can declare a
title acquired by the process here proposed to be good and indefeasi-
ble in law and in equity. If you are to insert at the end of this par-
agraph the party should not have a standing in court, either in a law
court or a chancery court, you could not reach it. There is no use in
misleading men to purchase property by intimating to them there is
no law under which a former owner maytest the title, and especially
when this section provides that the highest bidder, even though it be
for less than the tax, penalties, and costs, shall have the property-
property worth half a million of dollars, against which may b'asp
sessed $5,000 for taxes, penalties, and forfeitures, and which may be
bid off for one cent; and it provides the purchaser shall have a good
and indefeasible title against the world.
Now, so long as the owner of land mnst come and pay taxes run-
ning atthe rate of 10 per cent. interest, as long as they run per annum
with penalties and costs and must pay upon that 10 per cent. even
after the costs have accrued, and so long as that has to be paid, al-
though the title may be defeated, that is enough. The owner of the
land may be utterly unable to pay the tax. The owner of the land
may be away. The owner of the land may have been deceived. He
may have sent his money and have supposed it was all right He
may have had a dishonest agent. No matter what the circumstances,
without any possible fault whatever, he maybe deprived of his land.
And if this law should be held good the purchaser of the land shall
have a title which could not be attacked, no matter what equities
existed, no matter what violations of law brought about the result.
I venture there is no State in this Union and no Legislature of any
State in this Union which ever passed such a law, or, if they did,
there is no court that ever sustained it.
Mr. BOUCK. Will the gentleman from Michigan refer me to some
law-book by which I can find what a tax title is I
Mr. CONGER. That is an elementary proposition known to every
student of the law.
Yx. BOUCK. I can understand what it means if you say the deed
prima fae shall convey the title.
Mr. SAMFORD. JPrhmafaoie title is presumptive title.
Mr. BOUGK. It is no title at all.
Mr. CONGER. The phrase is often used in that way. A title on
itsfaceis to be considered good until rebutted by other circumstances.
Mr. HUNTON. I hope the amendment of the gentleman from
Michigan will not prevail. The plan of the committee in regard to
the sale of delinquent tax lands is to this effect: where the property
has been sold at the first sale aprmafacE title is conveyed. If that
land is bid in by the commissionersof the District of Columbia and
held and taxed as any other land in the District is taxed and held,
then when the District undertakes to sell, the title of the District
conveyed in that deed by sale cannot be attacked afterward. It
conveys a good and indefeasible title.
Mr. CONGER. Has anything in the meantime been done under the
law to make the title which the District conveys any better thauthe
other, any higher title I
Mr. HUNTON. It makes it better in this: if the party delinquent
still holds out and will not pay the taxes which this lawprovides may
he p aid up to the sale by the District, then the party still holding'
out and failing to pay his taxes must submit to an indefeasible title
when the District of Columbia sells.
The supposition tbt the gentleman makes about property worth
$l,000,000 being sold for a cent is about as probable as the sky falling
and catching larks. We all know property of value brings a go
market price at sale in this District when the purchaser knows he is
going to get a title. The reason why property does not bring in value
at these tax sales is because the purchaser knows he cannot get a
good title.
Mhr. NEAL. He gets nothing but a lawsuit.
Mr. HUNTON. Nothing but a lawsuit, and that is the reason why
tax sales in this District have been altogether a failure, and that is
the reason why come of the people in the District refuse to pay their
taxes.
Now pass this law, which throws around the owner of the property
every safeguard in the way of redemption, running through a period
of four years, and my word for it there will not be ten sales where
there are now a thousand. People will pay their taxes, if this be-
comes a law, without any difficulty.
2r. CONGER. But no lawyer will be afraid of this section. It
will scare ignorant and credulous people only.
Mr. HUN SON. If the gentleman from Michia.n has property here,
or if he is a property-owner in the District, it would scare him, I
imagine, if he was delinquent.
Mr. CONGER. But I am a timid man anyhow. [Laughter.]
Mr. SAMFORD. I move to strike out the last word for the pur-
pose of asking the gentleman from Virginia a question. I understand
the gentleman to be contending for this, and my colleague on the
committee from Ohio also, simply for the purpose of determining this
ta matter. Now does the gentleman fromrirginia or the gentleman
from Ohio know of a single State in this Union whoseLogislature has

3540

IAX- 19,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0540.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HO1USE.

over passed such a law as this, attempting to give a tax title such a
character as is proposed to be given to it here ?
'Mr. HUNTON. I know of no State which makes such liberal pro-
vision for delinquent tax-payers as this bill makes.
Mr. SAMIFORD. Then another question: does not the gentleman
know that in many States of this Union it has been attempted to
give s good and indefeasible title by tax sale and the Supreme Court
has decided in every instance that it could not be done?
Mr. HUNTON. i do not know of any such decisions.
Mr. SAMFORD. It has been doneinmyown State, andithas been
so decided by the Supreme Court of the United States.
Mr. HUNTON. In what case ?
hfr. SAMFORD. In the cases to which I referred the otter night,
and also the case in 48 Otto, cited as affirming the contrary doctrine
in the case of Smalls. The gentleman from Illinois cited me to it as
exploding the doctrine of Cooley on Constitutional Limitations,
Blackwell on Tax Titles, and the forty-eight Alabama Reports, but
he was in error, as he will find by rereading it. Now, there has not
been a single successful attempt ever made in the United States to
convey a man's property by an indefeasible title at a tax sale with-
out giving him the opportnnityto defend it. That has been tried in
several States and in my own State unsuccessfully, and the machinery
of the law has been provided by which the tax delinquent shall go
into court and show cause why his title should not be divested.
There is no use in putting such a section as this into the law. It
will only be a snare and a delusion. Every man who buys property
at such sales under such a law would suppose he was getting a con-
elusive title. I have no idea that the courts will sustain it.
'Mr. FIELD. What objection is there to inserting in the twenty-
third line, after the word "held," the words "4jprjinafacle," and after
the word "title, "in fee-simple ; so that it will read, which shall
be held primafae to convey a good and indefeasible title in fee-
simple "
"We know that the words used in this section may b held to con-
voy title for a limited time, for a year or during life; but if the words
"fee-simple" are inserted the meaning cannot be mistaken. By in-
serting the words "prima fadee" it would be held as presumptive
evidence of title. Otherwise the burden would rest upon the pur-
chaser of showing that all of the necessary preliminaries had been
complied with. These words, if inserted, would give all necessary
protection to the purchaser of property at such sales and make the
section complete.
The CHAIRMAN. Does the gentleman from Alabama insist upon
his jrofosrma amendment?
Mlr. SAMFORD. No, sir; I withdraw it.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Massachusetts will please
indicate his amendment.
ir. FIELD. As there is an amendment pending, I offer this as a
substitute :
Insert after the word "hold" the words "jrita fiacie," and after the word
'title" the words "in fee-simple" in line 23 of this section.
Mr. CONGER. I accept the substitute.
The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will report the substitute presented
by the gentleman from Massachusetts whichhas been accepted by the
gentleman from Michigan in lieu of his amendment.
The Clerk read as follows:
Inlinell, afterthoword  held,"insert "'prilaf ece,"andafterthewora "title,"
in the same line, insert the words, "in fee-simple;" so that if amended it will
read:
"The commissioners shall execute to the purchaser a deed for the same, which
shall be held prcisafac oto convey a geed andtindefeasible title in fee-simple," &e.
The amendment was agreed to.
ir. HUNTON. As I understand, although the substitute was
adopted, it was in the nature of an amendment to the amend-
ment ?
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Michigan accepted the
amendment in lieu of his own.
Mr. HUNTON. Very well ; I was mistaken.
Mr. ROBINSON. I believe it is agreeable now to the gentleman
having charge of this bill to return to. the section on the preceding
page from that now under consideration, which was passed over, to
provide for that place which was omitted. I send up an amendment
which vill be readily understood.
The Clerk read as follows:
Strike out alltafer the word " thereon." in the fifteeuth line, down to tho word
"ahall," in the nineteenth line, and insert, "or if any propery two years after
having bcen so bid for at any suh sale in the name of the itrict is not or has
not teen ka redeemed as aferesaid, or if any property heretofore bid off at any sale
whatever under any law in the name of cald ]istrict, is not or has not been re-
e-cemud as afores-aid, within two yea next after thepeage of this set then in
either ca-  the same ; as that, if adopted, it will read:
"And if within two years theteatter ouch property is not redeemed by the owner
or owner, therof, by the payment of the taxes, penalties, and costs due at the
time of the offer of the eale, and that may have accrued after that date, and 1e ter
cont. per annum thereon; or if any property two years after having been so id
for at any such lslo in the name of the District, is not or has not been so redeemed
as afore-aid, or if any property heretofore bid off at any sale whatever, under any
law in the namo of ,nd istrict, is not or has not been redeemed as aforesaid,
within two yearn next after the pazmgo of this act, then in either case the same
shall be held forfeited to the District," de.
Mr. HUNTON. I have no objection to that.
The amendment was agreed to.

The Clerk read as follows:
SEc. 159. On or before the first Monday of November, 1555, the collector shall
prepare a list of all lands which may have been bid off at any tax sale, under oan
ew athorzg such sales, at a peiod more than two yearspriorto said firstiel-
day of November, and shall proceed to advertise and dispose of the same as ispro-
viaed in the preceding section for the saloefoforfeitedlands; andallthoprovilon
of the preceding section as to the sale, execution of deed, character of the title ac-
quired, and redemption upon the removal of disabilities shall be applicable to sales
made hereunder.
Mr. CONGER. I suggest that the amendment adopted on the mo-
tion of the gentleman from Massachusetts [Mr. RoBnsox] to the for-
mer section should also be inserted here.
Mr. HUNTON. I do not think that is necessary. The language hero
is "under any law authorizing such sales."    That applies to the pre-
ceding amended section.
The Clerk read as follows:
SEC. 190. Any person who may purchase lands under the provisions of the last
two preceding;;ectionas may recover possessonihi anyof the modes providedbylaw
for recovering the possession of real estate in the District, and the deed, executed
by the commissioners, shall be conclusive evidence of his title ani right of pos-
sessao.  he may als have the benefit of all the laws relating to the p ilio c of
real estate in the District.
Mr. FIELD. I offer the following amendment:
In line 5 strike out the word "conclusive" and insert "'-nia fc,-."
The amendment was agreed to.
The Clerk read as follows:
Sc. 151. No court, nor any judge thereof, shall allow any injunction or other
restraining order whatever on .behalf of any pe-son, company, or corporation to
restrain or prevent any officer from the proer discharge of ahy of the duties de-
volved upon him by ary of the provisions or this title, nor froi the collection of
any taxes upon any property, real or personal, by the proper officer thereof, either
by distress or in any mode provided by law. Any person who mar feel himself
aggrieved by reason of any of the acts or doings of any person under the provis-
ions of this itle, shall, neiertheless, pay al taxes levied-upon or a-sessed saianst
his property, or that which he may control, as herein provided for, under prtest,
and thereupon may institute legal proceedings against the Distict to recover back
tha same. And in suits now plnding in any court of the District en behalf of any
person, company, or eorporation, in which the collection of taxes is epioise or
restrained, or anyofficer is en joine fr'om the discharge of any duty devolved upon
hmby any laws of the District for the as-csent. 'and colleetitn of taxes, it is
hereby made the duty of the cosirt, or the judge thereof, in which any of such
suits may be pending, on motion of the District attorney, who shall appear in the
ease and conduct the same to final trial and judgment, to advance such suita upon
their respective deckcets ahead of all ether cases, except criminal cau~ses, and to
cause the same to be finally disposed of without any unnecessary delay.
Mr. PAGE. I do not wish to delay the committee at 'all ; but I
want to offer a suggestion and to call the attention of the lawyers
on the  c              he fact that the provision at the beginning of
this section seems to be a very peculiar one. I am not a lawyer, but
it stems to me that the provision here is very strong :
No court, nor any judge thereof, shall allow any injunction er ther retraining
order whatever on behalf of any person, compay, or corporstien, to restrain or
peent any officer from the proper discharge of any of the duties devolved upon
That is in regard to the sale of real estate. That seems to me to be
very strong and     do not believe it ought to be the law.   I believe
that every citiaen of the United States whose proparty is abeut to be
offered for sale for delinquent taxes should ho permitted to appeal to
the couri      a sk for an injunction to restrain the officer from selling
his property. His cause will then get into court and he can havea
hearing; and if there has been any mistake made or any improper
assessment, or if there have been any improper proceedings in any
way, ho has his recourse at law. It seems to me this part of the sec-
tion should be stricken out.
The CHAIRMAN. Dues the gentleman offer an amendmn               th?
.fr. PAGE. I merely call the attention of the comittee to this
part of the section.
er. SAMFORD. Lt the gentleman move to strike that out.
Mr. PAGE. I move to strie out the first eight lines.
M . ATKINS. Lot the gentlen       read the language which h do-
sires to have stricken out.
Mr. PAGE. I will do so. It is as followst:
No court, nor any judge thereof, shall allow any injunction or other restraining
order whatever on behalf of any person, company, or corporation to restraitor
prevent any officer from the proper discharge of any of the duties devolved upon
him byany of the provisions of this title, nor from the collectien of any taxes upon
any propsity, real or pronal, by the proper officer thereof either by istress or in
any moe proavidod by    ew.
I will not insist on my amendment. If the committee do not see
proper to strike out that portion of the section, let it go.
ir. WEAyER. If the gentleman from         California withdraws his
amendment, I renew it. I do not know a State of this Union where
there is ouch a statute as that.
er. HUNTON. There is exactly such               p statute in Tennessee.
MIr. WEAVER. There may bein Tennessee, but Icertainysheould.
not wish to have a statute of that kind in this District whore the
peopie have no voice in making the law which governs diem. It is
avery strange statute. I am willing to make the law for this Distrit
as srong as that of the average statutes of the States of the Union
governing such matters. But £ am not willing to vote for this sec-
tion as it stands. I move to amend by striking out the fist eight
ines of the section.
Mr. SA2IFORD. That would necessitate striking out the whole
section.
Ar. ROBINSON. This is the law of the State of Miassachuetts,
and it has been antained by the supreme oury of that Stat.

1880.

3541



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0541.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECO1 D-HOUSE.

Mr. WEAVER. In this language I
Mr. ROBINSON. There is no need of having a statutory provision
in that State, because th supreme court holds a party who seeks relief
from taxation5 such relief as this, mnst seek his -remedy at law and
not in equity.
Mir. BOUCK. As to real estate or personal property?
Br. ROBINSON. As to every kind of property subject to taxation.
Therefore this statute only expresses the decision of the supreme
court of that State. In every instance when a party applies for an
injunction or restraint to prevent the collection of taxes the applica-
tion is refused and the party is remitted to his statutory remedy of
correction by legal process. No damage is done to the party. I sub-
miltIo my friend from California and the gentleman from Iowa that
he has his full remedy. If the State or the town is enforcing the
payment of a sum of money which he considers should not be en-
forced, he says, "I deny your right to enforce it." Then, for the pur-
pose of summary colleetiodi, the State or town can say, "You pay
this money and then you will have an action to recover back your
money; you pay it under protest." And there is no sale. The pay-
ment of the tax stops everything.
I think the doctrine may just as well be applied to the people of
this District who are subject to taxation as to any people anywhere.
I do not think it is a sound doctrine, as the gentleman from Iowa
says, to make a mild and gentle law for the people of the District
because they are not represented here in Congress.
Mr. WEAVER. I did not say that.
M1r. ROBINSON. I think that is the substance of what the gentle-
man says. If it is right for us to legislate for the people of the Dis-
trict at all, let us legislate in a sound and reasonable way. We leg-
islate in that way for our people, and I submit it is proper legislation.
The tax is something that the person against -whom it is properly
assessed should pay promptly; and there should be summaryproecess
against the party who would stand out and withstand the collection
of that tax.
If you go on without such a statute as this, and if the courts in
equity in this District should not hold in accordance with the doc-
trines held by the Massachusetts courts, what would be the result?
You might levy a tax on the people, and they would take you into a
court of equity and keep you there year after year in controversy
about the tax. I need not enlarge upon that; I think it is apparent
to every gentleman.
Mr. WEAVER. One word in reply to the gentleman from Massa-
chusetts, [Mr. RonDnsor.] I do not ask for aralein this regardthat
is milder than the general average of the statutes of the different
States. It may be that the Massachusetts rule is very rigid in that
regard; it maybe that the rule in Tennessee is rigid; butwhatharm
could possibly come to the revenues of this District if you allow to a,
court the right to hear an application for an injunction, and give the
court authority to set a day when the property-owner should come
forward andpresent his case, and when the District throughits attor-
ney should endeavor to show cause why an injunction should not
issue 7 Certainly no harm will come to the revenue, unless you pro-
suppose that the courts are unfriendly to a collection of the revenue.
I do not know any reason in the world why you should say to the
people here that they shall not have an injunction to restrain an
nnlawful sale of their property.
Mr. PAGE. The gentleman from Massachusetts [Mr. RoI iimso]
spoke of the law of Massachusetts, and said that this provision was
similar to that law. All I have to say about that is that I know they
are very strict in Massahusetts ; in fact, they are so strict that they
disfranchise those who do not pay a poll-ta x-a thing which is not
done in any other State that I know of.
Mr. A DRICH, of Rhode Island.. It is done in Virginia.
Mr. NEAL. We must do one of two things: provide a law by
which taxes can be collected, or else abandon the idea of collecting
taxes at all and let the General Government pay all the expenses of
the District of Columbia. If the members of this Congress are will-
igto do that, lam with them. I shouldlike to see this city made a
&reat and magnificent city, the greatest on the American continent,
if not the greatest in the world; and I am willing to help pay the
taxes necessary for that purpose.
But I understand the policy isto require the peoleof this District
to pay a portion of these taxes. As long as we legislate for the peo-
ple of this District, as the gentleman from Massahnsetts LMr. ROn-
nzsoN] says, we must legislate in a sound and proper manner; in
other words, we must provide laws for levying taxes in a reasonable
manner, andthenprovide the necessary machineryforcoliecting those
taxes.
There is now no law in this District prohibiting the courts of the
District from issuing restraining orders in these cases. What is the
result? The collection of taxes has in a measure been obstructed by
the judges of this District issuing restraiuing orders and injunctions,
when calledfor. One of the judges of this District is already in arrears
of taxes to the amount of several thousand dollars. And Iam told by
citizens of this District who are tax-payers aud law-abiding men (I
do not know how it is myself) that there is no trouble whatever for
any man who wishes to shirk the payment of taxes to get an injunc-
tion or restraining order from that judge.
