him.
Mr. BURLESON. Who holds the office now?
Mr. TAWNEY. I do not know his name; but I understand
that he was formerly a very popular newspaper man.
Mr. FOSTER of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, we have seen state-
ments in the newspapers which I think are correct, except
perhaps as to the amount of the saving to be expected, as to
the laundering of paper money. Have the Committee on Appro-
priations taken that matter into consideration in this appro-
priation bill?
Mr. TAWNEY. We have not, for the reason that the process
of restoring money by laundering it is not yet fully developed.
It is in the experimental stage. I believe, however, that inside
of a year we will be able by that process to very materially
reduce the cost of producing our paper money. We were not
justified at this time in acting upon the results of the experi-
ments as far as they have gone.
Mr. FOSTER of Illinois. It seemed to me that if it was true
that a saving of $3.000,000 could be saved to the Government,
it ought to be adopted.
Mr. TAWNEY. It would save a considerable amount to the
Government, because it is anticipated that it will increase the
life of a bill about one-half. If the gentleman, when he visits
the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, will give the director
of the bureau a paper dollar he will cut it in two for him,
launder one half and paste it together, and he will see the con-
trast between the laundered portion of the bill and that portion
which is not laundered. The process can be completed in a
short time. I will say to the gentleman, however, that if he
adopts that he wants to be careful to see that there is a suffi-
cient amount of paste on the paper when it is put together, or
he will be minus a dollar. I lost one half of mine.
Mr. FOSTER of Illinois. I will state to the gentleman that
I have seen just what the chairman of the committee states in
reference to the cutting the bill in halves and one part of it
being laundered, showing the effect, and it seemed to me it
was a most excellent way of prolonging the life of old money
that the Government now destroys; and if there was such
saving as has been claimed in the newspapers of $3,000,000, I
thought the Committee on Appropriations should consider it.
Mr. TAWNEY. I have no doubt in the world but that that
thing will be accomplished, but at the present time the process
is in such an experimental state that we did not feel justified
in reducing the appropriation for this purpose for the next
fiscal year. If they work it out so that it is demonstrated to
be satisfactory and successful, of course they will make the
estimate for the next fiscal year in accordance with it.
Mr. FOSTER of Illinois. May I ask if the director of the
bureau has facilities for doing this work at this time?
Mr. TAWNEY. He has not an equipment that would be nec-
essary if he were to launder all the money that is now re-
deemed and destroyed. Of course, It would not be wise for him
if he had the money to purchase it until they know that the
process is going to be absolutely successful. Nobody would be
warranted in equipping a plant for that purpose until their ex-
periments had demonstrated the absolute utility of the process.
The Clerk read as follows:
Canceling United States securities and cutting distinctive paper: For
extra knives for cutting machines and sharpening same; leather belting,
new dies and punches, repairs to machinery, oil, cotton waste, and other
expenses connected with the cancellation of redeemed United States
securities, $200.
Mr. MACON. Mr. Chairman, In order that the Chair may
have further practice in his newfangled style of counting, I
make the point of no quorum.
Mr. TAWNEY. I make the point, Mr. Chairman, that the
point of no quorum is dilatory; it was made only a few min-
utes ago.
The CHAIRMAN. It seems to the Chair that as a quorum
was present ten minutes ago, it is not necessary to count a
quorum again.
Mr. MACON. Mr. Chairman, it has been more than ten min-
utes, and I am inclined to think that I am within the rules in
making the point now; certainly more so than the Chair was
a few minutes ago, when he took such a long time to count a
quorum.
The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will read.
The Clerk read as follows:
Custody of dies, rolls, and plates: For pay of custodian of dies,
rolls, and plates used at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing for the
printing of government securities, namely: One custodian, $3,000;
two subcustodlans, one at $2,000, and one at $1,800; three distributers
of stock, one at $1,600, one at $1,400, and one at $1,200; In all,
$11,000.
Mr. MACON. Mr. Chairman, I make the point that there is
not a quorum present.

Mr. TAWNEY. And I make the point of order that the gen-
tleman's point is dilatory. He is doing it simply to consume
time, and not in good faith.
Mr. MACON. I want to say to the gentleman that I am doing
it in the best of faith.
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair does not feel certain that the
gentleman from Arkansas has a right to have the Chair count
a quorum again at this time, but the Chair will count. It is
manifest to everybody that it would not be in order to con-
stantly make a point of no quorum and keep the Chair counting
all the time. That would permit anyone to filibuster so that
no business could ever be transacted.
Mr. MACON. The Chair can glance over the House and see
that there is not a quorum pregent. We are entitled under the
rules to have a quorum present at all stages of the progress of
legislation in the House.
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair will count. [After counting.]
Seventy-three Members present-not a quorum-and the Clerk
will call the roll.
The Clerk called the roll.
The CHAIRMAN. Under the rule the committee will rise
and report to the House.
Accordingly the committee rose; and Mr. DALZELL, Speaker
pro tempore, having assumed the chair, Mr. MANN, Chairman
of the Committee of the Whole House, reported that the House
had been in Committee of the Whole House on the state of the
Union for the consideration of the sundry civil appropriation
bill and had found itself without a quorum; that thereupon the
Chairman ordered the roll to be called in accordance with the
provisions of the rules, and 133 Members answered "present"
and the following Members failed to answer to their names:
Aiken           Fornes          Kinkead, N. J.  Pray
Alexander, Mo.  Foss, Ill.      Knapp          Prince
Alexander, N. Y. Foss, Mass.    Korbly         Ralney
Allen           Foster, Vt.     Kronmiller     Randall, Tex.
Ames            Gaines          Lamb           Ransdell, La.
Anderson        Gallagher       Langham        Rauch
Andrus          Gardner, Mass.  Langley        Reid
Ansberry        Gardner, Mich.  Latta          Rhinock
Anthony         Gardner, N. J.  Law            Richardson
Ashbrook        Garner, Pa.     Lawrence       Riordan
Barchfeld       Gill, Md.       Legare         Roberts
Barclay         Gill, Mo.      Lenroot         Rodenberg
Bartholdt       Gillespie       Lever          Rucker, Colo.
Bartlett, Ga.   Gilmore        Lindsay         Rucker, Mo.
Bartlett, Nev.  Glass           Livingston     Russell
Bates           Godwin         Lloyd           Sabath
Bonnet, N. Y.   Goldfogle       Longworth      Saunders
Bennett, Ky.    Good            Loud           Sheffield
Boehne          Gordon         Lowden          Sherley
Borland         Goulden        Lundin          Sherwood
Boutell         Graham, Ill.    McCall         Simmons
Bradley         Graham, Pa.    McCreary        Sims
Brantley        Gregg          McCredie        Sisson
Broussard       Guernsey       McGuire, Okla.  Slayden
Brownlow        Hamill         McHenry         Slemp
Burgess         Hamlin         McKinlay, Cal.  Small
Burke, S. Dak.  Hammond        McKinley, Ill.  Smith, Iowa
Burleigh        Hanna          McLaughlin, Mich.Smith, Mich.
Calderhead      Hardwick       McMorran        Smith, Tex.
Cantrili        Hardy          Madison         Snapp
Capron          Harrison        Maguire, Nebr.  Southwick
Carlin          Haugen          Martin, Colo.  Sparkman
Carter          Havens         Martin, S. Dak.  Sperry
Clark, Fla.     Hay            Maynard         Spight
Cline           Hayes          Miller. MinAn.  Stanley
Cocks, N. Y.    Heald           Millington     Steenerson
Cole            Heflin         Mondell         Stevens, Minn.
Cook            Henry, Conn.    Moon, Pa.      Sturgiss
Cooper, Pa.     Henry, Tex.    Moon, Tenn.     Sulzer
Coudrey         Higgins        Moore, Pa.      Swasey
Covington       Hinshaw         Moore, Tex.    Talbott
Craig           Hobson          Morehead       Taylor, Ala.
Cravens         Hollingsworth  Morgan, Mo.     Tenor
Creager         Howard         Morrison        Thomas, N. C.
Crow            Howell, N. 3.   Morse          Tirrell
Davis           Hubbard, Iowa   Moxley         Toi Velle
Denby           Hubbard, W. Va. Mudd           Vreeland
Dent            Huf            Murphy         Wallace
Denver          Hughes, N. T.  Needham         Wanger
Douglas         Hughes, W. Va.  Norris         Washburn
Driscoll, M. E.  Hull, Iowa     O'Connell      Webb
Durey           Humphrey, Wash. Olcott         Weeks
Edwards, Ky.    Humphreys, Miss. Olmsted       Welsse
Ellerbe         James           Padgett        Wheeler
Ellis           Jamieson       Page            Wiley
Elvins          Johnson, Ky.   Palmer, A. M.   Willett
Englebright     Johnson, Ohio  Palmer, H. W.   Wilson, Ill.
Estopinal       Johnson, S. C.  Parker         Wilson. Pa.
Fairchild       Jones          Parsons         Wood. N. J.
Fassett         Joyce           Patterson      Woodyard
Ferris          Kahn            Pearre         Young, Mich.
Fish            Keliher         Peters         Young, N. Y.
Flood, Va.      Kendall        Pickett
Focht           Kennedy, Ohio  Plumley
Fordney         Kinkald, Nebr.  Pratt
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Illinois,
Chairman of the Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union, reports that that committee, finding itself without
a quorum, the roll was called, and that there were disclosed
present 133 Members, the names of the absentees being recorded

1910.

6829



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0066.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD--fOUSE.

on the Journal. The committee, under the rules of the House,
will now resume its session, and the gentleman from Illinois
will take the chair.
Accordingly thl House resolved itself Into the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union, with Mr. MANN
In the chair.
The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will read.
The Clerk read as follows:
Pay of assistant custodians and janitors: For pay of assistant cus-
todians and janitors, Including all personal services for the care of all
public buildings under control of the Treasury Department outside of
the District of Columbia, and washing towels, sprinkling streets, and
removing rubblsh, In connection with said buildings, exclusive of
marine hospitals, mints, branch mints, and assay offices, $2,400,000;
and the Secretary of the Treasury shall so apportion this sum as to
prevent a deficiency therein.
Mr. DAVIDSON. Mr. Chairman, I offer the following amend-
ment, which I send to the desk and ask to have read.
The Clerk read as follows:
Page 33, line 8, after the word "hundred," insert the words "and
forty;" and after the word " thousand" insert the words " two hun-
dred," so that It will read " two million four hundred and forty thou-
sand two hundred dollars."
Mr. DAVIDSON. Mr. Chairman, the amendment that I have
offered increases the appropriation for this item $40,200. The
purpose of it is to increase the salaries of 335 Janitors in charge
of public buildings, post-office buildings, outside of Washington,
$10 a month. Janitors in charge of post-office buildings are
paid at the rate of from $55 to $65 a month only, whereas the
janitors doing like service in other buildings in the same com-
munities are paid a much higher rate. It seems to me this is
grossly inadequate. Just let me refer you to the salaries paid
to janitors in my home city. I have but little information
of conditions in other cities, but in my city of 35,000 people the
public building is in charge of a janitor, a watchman, and a
fireman. There is no engineer. The janitor has to take charge
of the heating plant and of the entire equipment of the build-
ing. The janitor is on duty every day in the year, holidays
and Sundays included. He has no vacation at the Govern-
ment's expense. If he takes any vacation, it Is by an arrange-
ment with the fireman, who does his work while he is on vaca-
tion for a few days, and when the fireman is away the Janitor
does the fireman's work in exchange. Now, the janitor in that
city gets a salary of only $55 a month and works every day,
practically nine hours a day-
Mr. TAWNEY. If the gentleman from Wisconsin will per-
mit, in what other occupation in his city could a janitor receive
$55 a month and work eight hours a day?
Mr. DAVIDSON. The janitor in the high school In my city
gets $75 a month. He does not have to do any work on Satur-
days, Sundays, or holidays, and gets ten' weeks' vacation in the
summer time. The assistant janitor in the high school gets $65
a month. The Janitor in the city hall gets $65 a mouth, and
that Includes house rent, fuel, light, and water, because quar-
ters are furnished for him in the city hall. Now, he Is paid $65
a month and all these things furnished. The salary of the
janitor In the normal school in my city is $50 a month, and he
gets house rent, fuel, light, and water free, and also no work
on Saturdays, Sundays, or holidays, and ten weeks' vacation
in summer. He has no care of the heating plant, as there is an
engineer in charge of that.
Now, there is no other occupation in which men doing that
service and having that responsibility get as low pay. They
pay elevator men here in the city of Washington $55 a month,
according to the hearings before the committee, and an ele-
vator man has charge of only the running of the elevator.
This janitor has charge of the entire building, the heating plant,
plumbing, repair work, the storm windows, and, in short, of
the entire equipment. He is responsible for the mail as much
as clerks and carriers. He has to be just as honest, because
he has free access to the mails, and on Sunday for a part of
the day nt least he is there alone-no one else in the building-
where, if there was the slightest taint of dishonesty, he would
have ample opportunity to rob the mails as much as a carrier
or a clerk.
The CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentleman from Wiscon-
sin has expired.
Mr. DAVIDSON. I would like to have two minutes more.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Wisconsin asks
unanimous consent to proceed for two minutes. Is there ob-
jection? [After a pause.] The Chair hears none.
Mr. KEIFER. Does he fire up the furnace?
Mr. DAVIDSON. No; there is a fireman; but If there Is
anything the matter with the boilers, he fixes them up; If
there Is anything the matter with the doors or locks or hinges,
he fixes them up. He keeps a kit of tools and does all that

kind of work himself. Afore than that, Mr. Chairman, there
is no equality of pay to janitors throughout the United States.
There is some arrangement in the department-I do not know
what it is-by which they will combine titles and then give an
increase of salary. They will make the title "janitor-engineer,"
or something like that, and give him more pay, when, in real-
ity, he is doing no more work than this man does. This man Is
janitor and he is the engineer, and the only engineer, of the
building.
Now, it seems to me that we ought to increase the salaries of
these 335 men in the 335 buildings in the United States. They
have no organization. They have not come here like the clerks
and carriers, year after year, demanding increase of pay. I
would like to have included in this the laborers and the fire-
men, but I realize it is not desired to increase appropriations.
This is only. $40,200, but it will give $120 a year to each of 335
men who are working for altogether too low wages. I hope the
amendment will be adopted.
Mr. MADDEN. Will the gentleman yield for a question? I
just wanted to ask whether, if the appropriation were made, the
Secretary of the Treasury would be obliged to increase the
salaries provided for in the amendment.
Mr. DAVIDSON. I know of no way to compel him, because
I could not offer the amendment so it would be new legislation,
as I do not want it to go out on a point of order. But I as-
sume from his letter to me that the Treasurer would do it. I
have the letter from the Secretary of the Treasury wherein he
says:
There are now In this service 2,863 employees, 335 of whom bear the
title of " janitor " or are required to perform janitor work in connec-
tion with other duties. It would, therefore, require an additional ap-
propriation of $40,200 to make an average increase of $10 per month-n
the salaries of that class of employees.
I take it If this appropriation Is increased by this amount It
will be allotted to these janitors.
Mr. MADDEN. I think there is no amendment that could
be offered to this bill which is more meritorious than this, but
I have some doubt whether it would be acted upon if adopted.
The CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentleman from Wiscon-
sin has expired.
Mr. TAWNEY. The amount appropriated for this service
for the current fiscal year is $1,902,000. The amount carried
in this appropriation for the same service is $2,400,000, an In-
crease of a little over $500,000. The Committee on Appropria-
tions has given for this service every dollar that the depart-
ment has asked for.
Mr. DAVIDSON. Will the gentleman permit an inquiry?
Mr. TAWNEY. Yes.
Mr. DAVIDSON. Is it not a fact that all of that new ap-
propriation is caused by the increase of the public buildings
that have come into the service, and no part is carried for the
increase of the salaries of these men?
Mr. TAWNEY. Not all of it. But, Mr. Chairman, however
much we may appropriate, the law does not fix the salaries
to these employees. The amount appropriated is distributed
throughout the service in the discretion of the Treasury De-
partment. Now, I hardly think that Members of the House
will feel justified in increasing this appropriation to the extent
of $40,000 for the purpose of giving an increase of $10 a month
to the janitor of the public building in the home of my friend
from Wisconsin [Mr. DAVIDSON].
Mr. STAFFORD. Will the gentleman permit?
Mr. TAWNEY. Yes, sir.
Mr. STAFFORD. When was the last increase of salaries
to these employees?
Mr. TAWNEY. There have been some increases from time
to time in different buildings. As the gentleman from Wis-
consin [Mr. DAVIDSON] has said, these salaries are not uniform.
But the salaries fixed by the department are fixed with refer-
ence to responsibility and with reference to the amount of work
required. These janitors, of course, do not serve throughout
the entire day. We who live in cities that have public build-
ings know more or less about the service of these men. They
must clean up the building in the evening and they must clean
up and open the building in the morning.
Mr. COOPER of Wisconsin. Will the gentleman permit a
question right there?
Mr. TAWNEY. Yes.
Mr. COOPER of Wisconsin. Is it not true that the janitors
over in the House Office Building get $60 a month?
Mr. TAWNEY. I do not know. I can not answer the ques-
tion.
Mr. COOPER of Wisconsin. I know they do. They get $60
a month, or $65.

6830

MAY 24,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0067.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

Mr. TAWNEY. I have no doubt that is true; but the janitor
in the House Office Building may be living in California, and
he pays his own expenses in coming here for the purpose of
taking his position, and lives here in a city where the cost of
living is more than in almost any other city in the United
States.
Mr. COX of Indiana. Are these men under the civil service'.
Mr. TAWNEY. They are.
Mr. COX of Indiana. How is it, then, that the salary is
controlled absolutely by the Secretary of the Treasury?
Mr. TAWNEY. Because Congress has from the beginning,
in appropriating money for the service in public buildings,
made lump-sum appropriations for this service. There is no
stated salary.
Mr. GARDNER of Michigan. The janitors in the House
Office Building are not under civil service.
Mr. TAWNEY. No; they are subject to removal at any time
by the commission in charge of the House Office Building.
Now, in view of the fact, Mr. Chairman, that we have given
or proposed to give all that the department has asked, and in
doing that we have increased the appropriation over $5C0,000,
I hardly think that this committee would be justified in adding
$40,000 more, in order to give an increase of about $10 a month
to the janitors under the departments.
Mr. STAFFORD. With that half million dollars in opera-
tion, will it be sufficient to increase the salaries of these em-
ployees?
Mr. TAWNEY. I can not say.
The CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentleman from Minne-
sota has expired.
Mr. TAWNEY. We gave the estimate, and all they asked for.
Mr. CULLOP. I would like to ask the gentleman a question,
and I ask that his time may be extended.
The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection?       [After a pause.]
The Chair hears none.
Mr. CULLOP. I understood the gentleman to say that this
employee would come from California-
Mr. TAWNEY. He may come from California. We are
speaking of the janitors in the Office Building.
Mr. CULLOP. Is he kept on the pay roll the whole year
around?
Mr. TAWNEY. Oh, no; they are there during the session
of the House.
Mr. CULLOP. Are they kept at the Office Building all the
year around?
Mr. TAWNEY. No; they are not. The force Is reduced
when Congress adjourns. The House Office Building is in
charge of laborers. After Congress adjourns the laborers em-
ployed are under the jurisdiction of the Superintendent of the
Capitol Building.
Mr. CULLOP. What number of the force is used when Con-
gress is not in session?
Mr. TAWNEY. I am unable to say.
Mr. CULLOP. Is any gentleman able to give that informa-
tion?
Mr. TAWNEY. The House Office commission.
Mr. CULLOP. In your own committee, I think gentlemen
ought to have knowledge on that.
Mr. TAWNEY. The gentleman from New York [Mr. FITZ-
GERALD], in charge of the bill on that side of the House, is a
member of the commission and ought to be able to furnish the
information to the gentleman from Indiana.
Mr. COOPER of Wisconsin. Does not the gentleman remem-
ber that in one appropriation bill we have passed there is a
specific appropriation for janitors to the committee rooms and
to the House Office Building, at $60 a month?
Mr. TAWNEY. There are janitors to committees and some
of them are on the annual and some are not on the annual roll.
Mr. COOPER of Wisconsin. I am not talking about Janitors
to committees, but janitors to the rooms in that building. I am
talking about janitors.
Mr. TAWNEY. We appropriate for janitors to committee
rooms also $60 a month.
Mr. COOPER of Wisconsin. On the annual pay roll?
Mr. TAWNEY. Some of them are and some of them are not.
Mr. COOPER of Wisconsin. They are as to committee rooms.
Mr. TAWNEY. I think the gentleman is mistaken.
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
The committee informally rose; and Mr. McCALL having taken
the Chair as Speaker pro tempore, a message, in writing, from
the President of the United States was communicated to the
House of Representatives by Mr. Latta, one of his secretaries.

SUNDRY CIVIL APPROPRIATION BILL.
The committee resumed its session.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Pennsylvania is
recognized.
Mr. NICHOLLS. Mr. Chairman, I hope that this amendment
will be adopted. I would rather, if possible at this time, pro-
vide new legislation in the bill, by which it would be practicable
to increase the pay of janitors and custodians of public build-
ings, for I understand that they are not allowed the benefit of
the limitation of the hours of a day's work, and that their sal-
aries are small, running from $600 or $700. However, I pre-
sume, as the gentleman intends to introduce this measure, that
the increase will be applied more or less proportionately to that
class of employees, the result of which will be to advance their
wages. I hope that if it is adopted, that the gentleman who of-
fered it will be allowed to offer a suitable amendment, without
objection, that will make it mandatory upon the proper officers
to effect the increase in wages.
We have heard complaints in regard to the men employed in
this service from their friends, that they have not had the Jus-
tice which they should have had. I understand that some of them
are endeavoring to have hearings in the Court of Claims, and
are trying to learn whether or not the benefits of the eight-hour
law really apply to them. It seems to me that this is the time
that an opportunity is afforded to give them some measure of re-
lief, and that it ought to be granted. Therefore I hope this
amendment will be adopted.
The CHAIRMAN. The question is on agreeing to the amend-
ment offered by the gentleman from Wisconsin.
The question was taken, and the Chairman announced that the
noes appeared to have it.
Mr. DAVIDSON. Division, Mr. Chairman.
The committee divided; and there were-ayes 29, noes 35.
So the amendment was rejected.
The Clerk read as follows:
Fuel, lights, and water for public buildings: For the purchase of fuel,
steam, light, water, water meters, ice, lighting supplies, electric current
for light and power purposes, and miscellaneous items for the use of
the custodians' forces in the care of the buildings, furniture, and heat-
ing, hoisting, and ventilating apparatus, and electric-light plants, ex-
clusive of personal service, and all expenses in connection therewith,
and for expenses of installing electric-light plants, electric-light wiring
and fixtures, and repairs thereto, and the removal of ashes, etc., in
such buildings completed and occupied as may be designated by the
Secretary of the Treasury, for all public buildings, exclusive of marine
hospitals, mints, branch mints, and assay offices, under the control of
the Treasury Dlepartment, inclusive of new buildings, $1,550,000. And
the appropriation herein made for gas shall include the rental and use
of gas governors, when ordered by the Secretary of the Treasury in
writing: Provided, That .no sum shall be paid as rental for such gas
governors greater than 35 per cent of the actual value of the gas saved
thereby, which saving shall be determined by such tests as the Secretary
of the Treasury shall direct.
Mr. TAWNEY. Mr. Chairman, I offer the following amend-
meat.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Minnesota offers an
amendment, which the Clerk will report.
The Clerk read as follows:
On page 34, in lines 16 and 17, strike out the words "electric-light
wiring and fixtures, and repairs thereto."
Mr. TAWNEY. That is a mere duplication, which we are
striking out.
The amendment was agreed to.
Mr. MADDEN. Mr. Chairman, I offer the following amend-
ment.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Illinois offers an
amendment, which the Clerk will report.
The Clerk read as follows:
Insert at the end of the paragraph the following:
"Provided, That $5,000 of the sum appropriated shall be used for the
installation of electric lights on the exterior of the federal building at
Cl4ago."
Mr. TAWNEY. I reserve the point of order on that.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Minnesota reserves
the point of order.
Mr. MADDEN. Mr. Chairman, In the original construction
of this building it was provided that electric lights should be
established on the exterior of the building. The pedestals on
which the lights were to stand have been constructed, but the
lights themselves have never been installed. I have had con-
siderable correspondence with the Secretary of the Treasury
about this matter, and I have two letters from him stating that
he is in favor of the Installation of the lights, but that he is
unable, with the funds in his possession, to install them. In
a letter received from him to-day he states that if $5,000 can
be set aside for this purpose, he will be glad to install the lights.
There is no place anywhere In this country where lights are
more needed than they are on this building.        It covers an

1910.

6831



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0068.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

entire block. It Is dark and dangerous around the building,
because the Government does not do its duty by having the
building properly lighted. The collector of customs of the
Chicago district, who is the custodian of the building, recom-
Inends the installation of these lights. The postmaster of the
city of Chicago urges the very great necessity for their erection.
The people all around the neighborhood of the building have
been clamoring for more than a year for these lights. Last
autumn, in a conversation with the Supervising Architect of the
Treasury, he promised me that the lights would be erected
within thirty days, and when I went to see him at the expira-
tion of that period he said that he had not sufficient funds
with which to do the work. I then called upon the Secretary of
the Treasury and upon his assistant in charge of public build-
ings, and they have both expressed a desire to have this work
done. It is a small matter, it is an important one, it is out-
rageous that it has not been done before, and to say that
$5,000 of this $1,550,000 shall not be used for this purpose is
unwise, unjust, and impecunious. The amount of money pro-
vided for the erection of these lights is certainly infinitesimal
compared with the amount of money that is being appropriated
for other purposes less meritorious.
Mr. TAWNEY. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the facts'stated
by the gentleman from Illinois, but this amendment increases
the limit of cost of the Chicago building. It is for the instal-
lation of a service that does not now exist and for which there
is no authorization. If this should be done, then the demands
which are made upon this House, and especially upon the Com-
mittee on Appropriations, for similar improvements in con-
nection with public buildings of course could not be very suc-
cessfully resisted. There are a great many Members of the
House who have requested, and can not understand why Con-
gress has not in the past followed the policy of improving
and paving the streets around public buildings, court-houses,
and post-offices; but that has never been the policy of Con-
gress, and I do not think I can consistently refuse to consent
to provisions of that kind being carried in this bill if I consent
to the amendment of the gentleman from Illinois for an addi-
tion to the Chicago building, for which there Is no authoriza-
tion at the present time. I must therefore insist on the point
of order.
Mr. MADDEN. I should like to be heard on the point of
order.
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair will hear the gentleman from
Illinois on the point of order.
Mr. MADDEN. The original provision for this building, to
which I seek to have this addition made, provided for the build-
ing complete and contemplated the erection of these lights.
As an eyidence of that, pedestals upon which the lights are
to stand have been erected and the wiring to the pedestals has
been installed. It seems to me that, in view of the fundamental
law authorizing the purchase of the ground and the construc-
tion of the building, the point of order made by the gentle-
man from Minnesota can not be sustained. It seems to me,
further, Air. Chairman, that the gentleman is captious in his at-
tempt to strike out this provision suggested by me on a point of
order. There are many things in this bill which have no merit,
and here is a small item which is the most meritorious of any
item that will be in the bill, no matter how meritorious it may
be. The territory surrounding this building is traversed by
hundreds and thousands of people. It is not like a building
built on a prairie. The Government owes a duty to the people
who live in the great city from which it derives a large propor-
tion of Its revenue. It is the duty of the Government, it seems
to me, to complete the work which it has begun; and aside
from that, going to the merits of the question, the Government
owes to the people of the great city of Chicago a duty which
only construction of these improvements can fulfill.
The State of Illinois, in which this great city stands, pays
more than 15 per cent of the revenue of the Government into
the Treasury of the United States, and to ask for $5,000 to com-
plete one of the greatest federal buildings within the jurisdic-
tion of the Nation, and to have the chairman of the committee
stand in his place and make a point of order against its inser-
tion in the bill, is a matter so impecunious that it is unworthy
of notice. [Applause.]
The CHAIRIAN. The Chair thinks the amendment is
clearly subject to a point of order, and the Chair therefore sus-
tains the point of order.
The Clerk read as follows:
During the fiscal year 1911 the Secretary of the Treasury is author-
ized, out of the appropriations " Fuel, lights, and water for public build-
ings " and " Pay of assistant custodians and Janitors," to furnish steam
for the operation of pneumatic tubes of the postal service as hereto-
fore, and to pay employees in the production of said steam as hereto-

fore, the proceeds derived from the sale of said steam to be credited
to said appropriations in proportion to the amounts expended there-
from.
Mr. COX of Indiana. Mr. Chairman, I want to reserve a
point of order in order to ask the chairman to explain the pur-
pose of this provision.
Mr. TAWNEY. I will say to the gentleman from Indiana
that in explaining the same provision with respect to the Bu'-
reau of Engraving and Printing I called attention to some con-
ditions that existed in the Treasury Department with reference
to the furnishing of power to the pneumatic-tube companies
that furnish that service to the Government. It is for the same
identical reason that we have carried this provision here, ap-
plying the proceeds received from the pneumatic companies on
account of the power furnished by the Government.
The Comptroller of the Treasury has ruled that the receipts
from the pneumatic-tube company must be paid into the Treas-
ury to the credit of the general fund, and for that reason at
the last session of Congress, at the request of the depaitment
and at the request of the gentleman from Massachusetts [Mr.
KELIHER], who was very much interested, we carried this same
appropriation in the general deficiency appropriation bill.
Mr. COX of Indiana. I do not understand why you propose
to take some appropriation out of the fuel, light, water for the
buildings, and a part out of the pay of custodians and janitors to
furnish steam for the operation of the pneumatic-tube service
for the postal service.
Mr. TAWNEY. The gentleman, I suppose, knows that we
have a contract with certain pneumatic-tube companies to fur-
uish pneumatic-tube service?
Mr. COX of Indiana. What companies are they?
Mr. TAWNEY. Some company in Boston-I do not rememn-
ber the name--and one in New York, and I think one in St.
Louis. Chicago has the same service, but I do not know what
company furnishes it.
Mr. STAFFORD. There are two companies that furnish
service to five cities-Boston, New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis,
and Chicago-and under the contract for that service the Gov-
ernment provides all the power that propels the cylinders
through the pneumatic tube, and as the chairman has ex-
plained the necessity, because of the ruling of the comptroller,
so as to make available the amount received from these com-
panies for that character of service to be utilized for the use of
the Government.
Mr. COX of Indiana. Can the gentleman explain where the
economy is coming to the Government?
Air. STAFFORD. It is merely a question of bookkeeping.
The committee could appropriate a larger amount and have the
money lapse into the general fund of the Treasury without this
provision.
Mr. TAWNEY. The advantage to the Government is this:
In all our large public buildings we have a power plant. Under
the contract with the pneumatic-tube companies, the Govern-
ment is required to furnish the power for the tube service and
the companies are required to operate the service. In order
to operate the service, the companies either have to utilize the
power which the Government has in the building or use an
independent power plant of their own in the government build-
Ing, if the Government would permit them to construct such a
plant.
Mr. COX of Indiana. And you propose to let them use the
power plant in the government building?
Mr. TAWNEY. We control and operate the power plant in
the government building, and we charge them so much for the
power furnished.
Mr. COX of Indiana. How much do you charge them?
Mr. TAWNEY. I do not know; I can not recall. It is a spe-
cific contract entered into.
Mr. COX of Indiana. How long do these contracts last?
Mr. STAFFORD. The contracts run for a period of ten
years, under special authorization of law.
Mr. COX of Indiana. Are these the same contracts that were
before our committee?
Mr. STAFFORD. These are the identical ones that we have
considered this year and prior years.
Mr. COX of Indiana. There are only two pneumatic-tube
companies in the United States?
Mr. STAFFORD. Yes.
Mr. TAWNEY. I do not know how many companies there
are.
Mr. COX of Indiana. I withdraw the point of order.
Mr. MADDEN. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike out the last
word. Nobody seems to know how much or how little the Gov-
ernment gets back from the pneumatic-tube companies for the

6832

MAY 24,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0069.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HtOUSE.

service rendered by the Government. The hearings before the
Committee on Appropriations, page 169, show that the Govern-
ment does furnish steam to operate the pneumatic tubes, but
those in charge of the work claim that the Government does
this because there is no room to install boilers to operate the
compressed-air plants owned by the pneumatic-tube companies.
The Treasury Department claims that while it furnishes the
steam, it charges the amount back to the tube company, but
nowhere in the hearings does it appear what the amount
charged or received is.
Mr. TAWNEY. On page 170 of the hearings, I will say to the
gentleman from Illinois, Mr. Ludlow, the chief clerk of the
Treasury Department, says that the Government receives
$40,000 per annum for the operation of those tubes. "
Mr. MADDEN. And nobody knows whether that is the cost.
Mr. TAWNEY. He says:
There Is paid back to us by these companies something like $40,000
per annum for the operation of these tubes.
Mr. MADDEN. Mr. Ludlow also practically says that he is
not sure of whether that is the cost or whether it is less or
more. I am not using his language, but it seems to me there
ought to be some one somewhere who should know whether
the Government is being paid all it costs the Government to
operate these pneumatic tubes, and it further seems to me that
the Committee on Appropriations, in making this investigation,
should have ascertained Just exactly how much money the
Government spent in the performance of this work, and what it
cost it to do the work, for which the money was spent, and
whether the amount of money received from the tube companies
was sufficient to reimburse the Government for the outlay. No-
where in the hearing does that information appear, and before
this appropriation is made-
Mr. TAWNEY. If the gentleman from Illinois will permit,
if he will read the statement on page 171, I think he will see
that there is a very full and complete statement of the whole
transaction, showing how much of the receipts is credited to
the appropriation for fuel, lights, and water, and how much for
pay of assistant custodians and Janitors.
Mr. MADDEN. But it does not tell how much of this is for
power, it does not tell how much this power costs the Govern-
ment, and it does not tell whether the Government spent $2 for
every dollar it received, and I submit that that information
should be in the possession of the membership of this House
before it is called upon to act on a proposition of this magnitude.
Mr. Chairman, I move to strike out the Item In the bill which
provides for this appropriation, until we can get the information
which we ought to have to enable us to act intelligently upon it.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Illinois offers an
amendment, which the Clerk will report.
The Clerk read as follows:
Strike out the paragraph, lines 6 to 14, both inclusive, page 35.
Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. Chairman, I believe the gentleman
from Illinois will not be particularly anxious to have that done.
The committee endeavored to get the information which he has
stated is desirable. It may not have been as successful in ob-
taining the information as, perhaps, it should have been, but
after all the duty of obtaining that Information does not de-
volve upon the Committee on Appropriations so much as it does
upon the Committee on Expenditures in the Treasury Depart-
ment. The facts in connection with this matter are as follows:
In the cities of Chicago, New York, the Borough of Brooklyn as
a part of the city of New York, St. Louis, and In Boston there
Is a pneumatic-tube service. I do not know the conditions in
other cities, but I do know that in the post-office in the city of
New York and in the post-office in Brooklyn there is no room in
which it would be possible to install and operate an independent
boiler and power plant to furnish the power to operate the pneu-
matic tubes. When the arrangements for the operation of this
service were first made the Treasury Department fdrnished the
power to operate the tubes by slightly Increasing the force nec-
essary to operate the steam plants installed to furnish heat and
power in the several buildings, and they charged the companies
with the expense incident to this service, and the money was
credited to the various appropriations out of which the service
was paid, and was thus reimbursed to the Treasury Department.
Of course it is not possible for the committee to obtain this
accurate information, in view of the fact that it has been con-
fessed here to-day that the business methods in all the depart-
ments under this administration are so antiquated that it is im-
possible to tell anything about the cost of any service. The
attempt was made to remedy that situation and to provide funds
to bring in experts, men up-to-date In business methods, to en-
able this administration to install a system by which it would

be possible to determine how much these particular services
were costing the Government, but the gentleman from Illinois
[Mr. MADDEN] himself, and I am not criticising him for exercis-
ing his undoubted rights under the rules, made a point of order
against the amendment, and so it is impossible, because of his
action, to install those up-to-date methods and, by installing a
proper cost system, to obtain the very information about the
lack of which he is now complaining.
Mr. MADDEN. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. FITZGERALD. Yes; I yield.
Mr. MADDEN. The gentleman from Illinois made the point
of order against the two amendments offered by the gentleman
from Minnesota, because of his belief that there was already in
the service of the Government a sufficient number of men on the
pay rolls, drawing compensation, to furnish all the expert In-
formation that may be needed as to the cost of every character
of service that may be rendered by any department of the Gov-
ernment.
Mr. FITZGERALD. Well, I will go further than the gentle-
man from Illinois. Not only are there a sufficient number on the
pay rolls, but, accepting the statement of the President himself,
there are many more than are necessary to furnish the informa-
tion; but under the manner in which these departments are
conducted they are such a worthless and incompetent lot that it
is necessary to get some other men who have some sense and
some talent and some ability to ascertain the facts required.
Mr. CAMPBELL. Most of them are civil-service employees,
are they not?
Mr. FITZGERALD. If they are not competent the civil-serv-
ice law does not protect them; and in view of the statement of
the President of the United States himself, reiterated here by
the gentleman from Indiana, that $100,000,000 could be saved
by the installation of proper methods and by bringing the busi-
ness of the Government to an up-to-date standard, I am
astonished that the gentleman from Illinois should first prevent
appropriations to get more intelligent, experienced, and compe-
tent men to put such systems into effect, and then complain be-
cause the committee can not get from an incompetent adminis-
tration the information he says it should have.
Mr. MADDEN. Will the gentleman tell the House how he
would have voted upon the amendments?
Mr. FITZGERALD. I did not hear the gentleman's state-
ment.
Mr. MADDEN. Will the gentleman tell the House how he
would have voted upon those amendments if they were not
stricken out on the point of order?
Mr. FITZGERALD. During the temporary absence of the
gentleman from Illinois, I said when I realized the purpose for
which those amendments had been offered, and when I com-
prehended the enormity of the confession that this is such a
worthless and incompetent administration, that I should be
glad to appropriate every dollar asked if by any possibility
somebody of intelligence, capacity, and efficiency could thus be
injected into these overpadded pay rolls of the Government
and-
The CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentleman from New
York has expired.
Mr. FITZGERALD. I ask a few minutes more to dilate on
the incompetency of this administration.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from New York asks
unanimous consent to proceed for two minutes. Is there ob-
jection? [After a pause.] The Chair hears none.
Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. Chairman, I simply call attention
to this fact so that the gentleman from Illinois will realize how
helpless the Committee on Appropriations is when it is at-
tempting to obtain accurate information about the cost of the
public service through officials who are confessedly, according
to the statement of the head of the administration, so grossly
incompetent.
I do not believe It fair for the gentleman from Illinois [Mr.
MADDEN] to stop this pneumatic service, so important in the
transmission of mails in the city of Chicago from this dimly
lighted and extra hazardous section, where the city of Chicago
refuses to put any lights, to the outlying sections, while in the
city of New York, where the pneumatic service is necessary-
Mr. MADDEN. I wish to say to the gentleman from New
York [Mr. FITZGERALD] that he does not know what he is talk-
ing when he suggests that the city of Chicago refuses to put
any lights in the outlying districts of the city. It is better
lighted than New York City is, or Brooklyn, either.
Mr. FITZGERALD. That may be, but nobody from New
York is coming and begging the Federal Government for a
pitiable $5,000 to light the streets around a public building.

XLV-428

1910.

6833



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0070.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

Mr. MADDEN. Neither is anyone coming from Chicago to
beg the Government to light its streets. They want the Gov-
ernment to light its buildings.
Mr. FITZGERALD. Let me say to my friend from Chicago
that he said it was a dangerous place because of lack of light.
I wish to say that there is no place in the city of New York
that is so dangerous at any time that a reputable citizen is not
safe at any time of the day or night. The gentleman said this
public building occupied a block, and It was dark all around it,
and was very dangerous. It is dangerous to the public be-
cause of the incompetents who are engaged in the public service
in that building. The lights are needed inside the building
more than they are needed on the outside. [Applause on the
Democratic side.] I should be glad to turn the light in. Per-
haps there would not be so many defalcations in the public
service in that particular building in the city of Chicago if it
were well lighted within as well as without.
Mr. MADDEN. Will the gentleman yield for a further
question?
The CHAIRMAN. The time of the gentleman from New
York [Mr. FITZWERALD] has expired.
Mr. MADDEN. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike out the last
two words. The gentleman from New York has made a feeble
effort to call the brilliancy of New York streets to the atten-
tion of the House, and he says, whether they are light or dark,
they are always safe. That is the first time I have ever heard
of anyone having courage enough to say that New York wds
safe, whether it was light or dark. No one but the gentleman
from Brooklyn would make that statement.
Mr. FITZGERALD. Now, my friend was never in any danger
In his many visits to the city of New York?
Mr. MADDEN. I wish to call the gentleman's attention to
the fact that, although he finds fault with my action in raising
a point of order against the two amendments offered by the
gentleman from Minnesota [Mr. TAWNEY] to strike out these
appropriations seeking to obtain information, the Committee
on Appropriations carried $25,000, 1 think, for a similar pur-
pose in the urgent deficiency bill. I wish to ask the gentle-
man from New York if that is true?
Mr. FITZGERALD. For that purpose In the Treasury De-
partment-in one department.
Mr. MADDEN. Then, I wish to ask the gentleman from New
York [Mr. FITZGERALD] and the gentleman from Minnesota [Mr.
TAWNEY] if it is not a fact that they carry $100,000 or some
.similar sum in the legislative, executive, and judicial appropri-
ation bill for this purpose? And then they come in this great
sundry civil bill and seek to appropriate $200,000 more for the
purpose of obtaining information in order that economies may
.be made.
Mr. TAWNEY. If the gentleman from Illinois will pardon
n, he has overstated that by 100 per cent. The appropriation
is only $100,000.
Mr. MADDEN. I am citing $100,000 in one bill, $25,000 in
another bill, and two amendments calling for $100,000 each.
Mr. BURLESON. That makes $325,000.
Mr. MADDEN. And I wish to call to the attention of the
gentleman from Minnesota and the gentleman from New
York-
Mr. TAWNEY. To such statemelts as that of the gentle-
lnan from Texas [Mr. BURLESON] no man can reply.
Mr. MADDEN (continuing). The fact that all the informa-
tion which is needed to properly conduct the affairs of the
Government in every department can be secured with the men
now in the service of the Government.
Mr. FITZGERALD. The President said they were too in
competent.
Mr. MADDEN. If the men who are In the service of the
Government are not competent to discharge the duties devolv.
ing upon them, they should be discharged.
Mr. BURLESON. The President has the power to do it.
Mr. MADDEN. And if they are discharged and new men
