the minds of honest business managers
that they may competitively enter the
national business field by the use of
lawful delivered   pricing  and   lawful
freight absorption.
Mr. DOUGLAS. Mr. President, will
the Senator yield?
Mr. O'MAHONEY. If the Senator will
permit me to complete my statement, I
shall then be glad to yield.
Everyone who has studied the prob-
lems of trade and commerce in our time
is aware of the fact that many inte-
grated and agglomerated modern busi-
nesses have invaded the field of local
retail  distribution. Innumerable    in-
stances can be cited of the manner in
which such organizations have used de-
vious means to crush competition in local
markets. They have been known, for
example, to sell at a loss in one city or
in one area in order to drive out compe-
tition. They have been known to im-
pose or to try to impose a rigid price sys-
tem beneficial to themselves alone and
having the effect of stifling the estab-
lishment and growth of small or new
competitive units. The uniform basing-
point price system and its variations
were typical of this sort of monopolistic
weapon.
UNCHANGING NATURE OF MONOPOLISTIC
ATTACKS
All such practices are obvious viola-
tions of law. No one, to my knowledge,
has ever stated this better than has for-
mer President, and former Chief Justice,
William Howard Taft. In a Presidential
message to Congress on January 7, 1910,
he used these words:
It is possible for the owners of a business
of manufacturing and selling useful articles
of merchandise so to conduct their business
as not to violate the inhibitions of the anti-
trust law and  et to secure to themselves the
benefit of the economies of management and
of production due to the concentration un-
der one control of large capital and many
plants. If they use no other inducement
than the constant low price of their product
and its good quality to attract custom, and
their business is a profitable one, they violate
no law. If their actual competitors are

small in comparison with the total capital
invested, the prospect of new investments of
capital by others in such a profitable busi-
ness is sufficiently near and potential to re-
strain them in the prices at which they sell
their product.
But if they attempt by a use of their pre-
ponderating capital and by a sale of their
goods temporarily at unduly low prices to
drive out of business their competitors, or
if they attempt, by exclusive contracts with
their patrons and threats of nondealing ex-
cept upon such contracts, or by other meth-
ods of a similar character, to use the large-
ness of their resources and the extent of
their output compared with the total output
as a means of compelling custom and fright-
ening off competition, then they disclose a
purpose to restrain trade and to establish a
monopoly and violate the act.
Mr. President, those words of former
President and former Chief Justice Taft,
to my mind, are a very succinct and ex-
plicit explanation of the purposes of anti-
trust laws. They are purposes which
ought to be maintained and sustained by
congressional action if we believe that it
is a desirable objective to promote a real
competitive economy.
None of these attacks by big business
upon little business will be protected by
S. 1008, for this bill operates only in a
very narrow field. It opens no door to
monopoly, but on the other hand, it gives
assurance and confidence to honest busi-
ness, which desires only to conform to
the laws which have been enacted for
the protection of competitive opportu-
nity in this country.
As has been repeatedly stated by mem-
bers of the Federal Trade Commission
and officials of the Department of Jus-
tice, existing law does not prohibit either
delivered pricing or freight absorption.
When either practice is used independ-
ently and without collusion and in a man-
ner which does not have the effect of
lessening or preventing competition or
tending to create a monopoly it is not
a violation of any antitrust law. This
the bill reaffirms.
With respect to unlawful price dis-
criminations, neither of these practices
is or ever has been mentioned in the
Clayton Act or the Robinson-Patman
Act as a forbidden method of pricing.
Nothing in this bill changes existing law
except that in section 3 of S. 1008 the bill
clarifies that portion of the Robinson-
Patman Act which provides the method
of procedure by which a respondent,
charged with price discrimination by the
Federal Trade Commission, may offer
proof that the difference in price which
such a seller has offered or made was, in
fact, made in good faith to meet an
equally low price of a competitor.
ANTITRUST LAWS FORBID ABUSES OF ECONOMIC
POWER
Unless the bill is adopted, honest busi-
ness managers in the United States who
have no desire to violate the antitrust
laws with respect to monopoly and who
desire to launch new businesses, will be
hindered, obstructed, and delayed in pro-
moting and expanding competitive busi-
ness opportunities in the United States.
The Sherman antitrust law makes
illegal "every contract, combination in
the form of trust, or otherwise, or con-
spiracy in restraint of trade or com-
merce," and provides that every person

making such a contract or engaging in
such a combination or conspiracy shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. It provides
that every person who shall monopolize
or attempt to monopolize and every per-
son who combines or conspires with an-
other person or persons to monopolize
"any part" of trade or commerce shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
The Federal Trade Commission Act
declares that unfair methods of com-
petition and unfair or deceptive acts or
practices in commerce are unlawful and
directs the Federal Trade Commission to
prevent such unfair methods or unfair
or deceptive acts.
The Clayton Act, as amended by the
Robinson-Patman Act, makes it unlaw-
ful for any person engaged in commerce
to discriminate in price between differ-
ent purchasers of commodities of like
grade and quality. It also provides that
where the effect of such discrimination
"may be substantially to lessen competi-
tion or tend to create a monopoly, or
injure, destroy, or prevent competition,"
the Federal Trade Commission may pro-
hibit such discriminations.
To make certain that this power given
to the Federal Trade Commission to
prevent discrimination in price is not
to be used to interfere with wholly nor-
mal and honest business activities in
pricing commodities, the Robinson-Pat-
man Act in explicit language declares
that price differentials which make only
due allowance for differences in the cost
of manufacture, sale, or delivery are not
prohibited. It also provides that the act
shall not be construed to prevent sellers
from selecting their own customers in
good-faith transactions which are not in
restraint of trade and that nothing shall
prevent price changes in response to
changing conditions of business.
There is a further provision which per-
mits price variations in individual com-
petitive situations when made in good
fnith to meet an equally low price of a
competitor.
ORIGIN OF GEOGRAPHIC PRICING CONTROVERSY
This, I think, is a complete summary
of the antitrust statutes-the Sherman
Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act,
and the Clayton Act, as amended by the
Robinson-Patman Act. Nowhere in any
of these laws is the practice of delivered
pricing or freight absorption condemned.
The   question  therefore  arises, why
should there be an act of Congress which
makes clear that these practices when
independently used, and not as a device
for unfair competition or illegal price
discrimination, are not unlawful.
The explanation is that the Supreme
Court opinion, handed down in a case
brought by the Federal Trade Commis-
sion against certain manufacturers of
cement, in which it had been shown by
competent evidence that these manufac-
turers had combined to fix prices, the
court in a footnote said:
While we hold that the Commission's find-
ings of combination were supported by evi-
dence, that does not mean that existence
of a "combination" is an indispensable in-
gredient of an "unfair method of competi-
tion" under the Trade Cormission Act.
(333 U. S. 683 at p. 721.)
This statement and similar dicta in
the opinion, which were wholly unneces-

7814

MAY 26



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0683.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

sary to that decision, showed only that
the Court did not want to bar itself in the
future from holding unlawful some other
unfair method of competition in which
either freight absorption or delivered
pricing might be used as a means. It
amounts only to a declaration that an
unfair method of competition may exist
without a combination. It certainly
does not say that delivered prices or
freight absorption without collusion are
unlawful.
Mr. President, some commentators on
that decision misinterpreted the dictum
as meaning that freight absorption,
without conspiracy or collusion or intent
to violate the antitrust law, was con-
demned by the decision. They may have
had the purpose of creating confusion.
They succeeded in convincing represent-
atives of small business and even Mem-
bers of Congiess that the effect of the
decision was to make individual freight
absorption and delivered pricing unlaw-
ful even where there was no intent to
violate the antitrust law. Even some of
the courts were confused. For in an-
other Federal Trade case, which was
decided thereafter, namely, the Rigid
Steel Conduit case, the seventh circuit
court of appeals went far beyond the
dicta of the Cement case and declared:
In the light of that opinion (I. e., the Ce-
ment case), we cannot say that the Com-
mission was wrong in concluding that the
individual use of the basing-point method
as here used does constitute an unfair meth-
od of competition (168 F. 2d 175 at p. 181).
In this case, two counts were filed, the
first of which was clearly based upon
conspiracy and not upon individual ac-
tion. *The second count, many thought,
implied conspiracy, but it was variously
interpreted within the staff of the Fed-
eral Trade Commission.
The respondents did not appeal from
the conviction on the first count, which
charged a conspiracy and upon which
they were found guilty, but went to the
Supreme Court on the second count, and
there, with one Justice not participat-
ing, the remaining eight Justices divided
equally, four against four, on whether
or not to sustain the conviction on the
second count. There we have a clear
demonstration of how confusion result-
ing from conflicting interpretations of
the meaning of language went so high
as the Supreme Court itself, where four
Justices said the law meant one thing
and four Justices said it meant another.
POLIcY OF FEDERAT TRADE COMMISSION
When it is remembered that Judge
Ewin L. Davis, in responding to a formal
questionnaire of the Senate Committee
on Interstate and Foreign Commerce,
under the    chairmanship   of Senator
EDwIN C. JOHNSON, declared specifically
that the second count was "not suscepti-
ble of application except in conspiracy
situations," it became apparent that the
dicta of the Supreme Court were not gen-
erally accepted within the Commission
itself. The official view of the Commis-
sion as to the legality of delivered prices
and freight absorption was expressed by
Judge Davis as follows:
There is nothing inherently or necessarily
unlawful about delivered prices, zone prices.
or freight absorption. However, there may

be discriminations in any prices, and if these
discriminations have monopolistic effects or
result in injury to competition within the
meaning of the Clayton Act, they are illegal.
Thus, with the Supreme Court dividing
equally, with the Federal Trade Commis-
sion asserting through its Chairman that
there is nothing inherently or necessar-
ily unlawful about delivered prices or
freight absorption, and with the business
world in evident confusion, this Senator
from Wyoming undertook to clarify the
law by asserting in simple language that
when these practices are used independ-
ently, that is to say, without collusion,
and do not have a monopolistic or op-
pressive 6ffect, they are not prohibited.
To do this it was necessary only to de-
clare that neither delivered pricing nor
freight absorption, standing alone and
independently used, is prohibited by the
Federal Trade Commission Act, while at
the same time retaining in full vigor the
power of the Federal Trade Commission
to condemn such practices when, as in
the Cement case, they are used as a
means of violating the law prohibiting
unfair trade pract+ces. It was necessary
also to do the same thing with respect to
the Clayton Act, as amended by the Rob-
inson-Patman Act, with respect to price
discriminations involving the use of
freight absorption and delivered prices
by individual sellers.
This is precisely what S. 1008 does, and
nothing more. It reasserts existing law
and it protects the antitrust laws as will
be readily seen by reading the bill, sec-
tion by section.,
ANALYSIS OF SECTION 1 OF S. 1008
Now let us analyze the bill.
Section 1 amends the particular pro-
vision of the Federal Trade Commission
Act, which makes unlawful unfair meth-
ods of competition and unfair or decep-
tive acts or practices, by declaring that
it is not an unfair method of competition
under section 5 of the Federal Trade
Commission Act for a seller acting in-
dependently, without collusion express
or implied, to sell at delivered prices or
to absorb freight. Then to make cer-
tain that the power of the Federal Trade
Commission is preserved to prevent the
use of such practices to hinder competi-
tion, the following provision is added:
Provided, That this shall not make lawful
any combination, conspiracy, or collusive
agreement; or any monopolistic, oppressive,
deceptive, or fraudulent practice, carried out
by or involving the use of delivered prices or
freight absorption.
This language covers the whole scope
of the prohibitions of the antitrust laws.
Under this bill, S. 1008, neither delivered
prices nor freight absorption can be even
involved in any combination, conspiracy
or collusive agreement, nor can any mo-
nopolistic,  oppressive, deceptive,   or
fraudulent practice be carried out by
-means of either of these practices with-
out violation of the act. Any attempt
to unduly hinder, lessen, injure, or pre-
vent competition, or any tendency to
hinder competition or create a monopoly,
or any acts which could bring about such
effects by the use of delivered prices or
freight absorption would be unlawful
under this proviso, which preserves the

flexibility of the term, "unfair method
of competition."
To hinder, lessen, injure, or prevent
competition would be monopolistic. To
fix prices to administer prices, to mo-
nopolize any part of trade or commerce
or to attempt to monopolize by means
of either of these practices would be both
monopolistic and oppressive, and, there-
fore, would not by section 1 of this bill
be exempted from the jurisdiction of the
Federal Trade Commission. Moreover,
any conceivable predatory practice at-
tempted to be carried out by means of
delivered prices or freight absorption
would certainly be oppressive. In short,
any effort to violate the antitrust laws
by means of or involving the use c" de-
livered  prices or freight absorption
would obviously be an unfair or decep-
tive practice within the meaning of sec-
tion 5 of the Federal Trade Commission
Act, or an unfair method of competition.
Any attempt to argue that this section
revives basing-point pricing either as a
single or multiple system for the purpose
or with the effect of eliminating price
competition is a plain repudiation of the
clear mearing of simple words.
SECTION 2 LEAVES STANDARDS OF ILLEGALITY
UNCHANGED
Section 2 of S. 1008 meets the same
problems with respect to the Clayton
Act, as amended by the Robinson-Pat-
man Act. It will be remembered that
the amended Clayton Act in section 2
(a)  prohibits  discriminations   which
"may have the effect" of substantially
lessening competition or tending to cre-
ate a monopoly, or injuring, destroying,
or preventing competition. Nowhere in
this section, as nowhere in section 5 of
the Federal Trade Commission Act, is
delivered pricing or freight absorption
mentioned as a discrimination.
So section 2 of S. 1008 is written in a
form specifically designed to inform the
honest manager in trade or commerce
that, if delivered pricing or freight ab-
sorption is used independently and does
not effect a violation of the antitrust
laws, it is not to be regarded as within
the definition of an illegal price discrimi-
nation. This section makes it clear that
so-called postage stamp pricing is not
unlawfully discriminatory and the ques-
tions of discrimination as to other types
of delivered pricing are to be answered
by consideration of the effect of the pric-
ing method upon competition. So it is
provided that delivered prices are not
unlawful if they "are not such that their
effect upon competition riay be that pro-
hibited by this section." Thus with re-
spect to delivered pricing, the full force
of the Robinson-Patman Act is preserved
in the language of the Robinson-Patman
Act. It is not changed in the slightest
respect.
With regard to freight absorption, the
bill as introduced provided that where
this practice was followed "to meet the
equally low price of a competitor in good
faith," it was not unlawful. However,
amendments to this provision added in
the Senate and in the House emerge in
the conference report in the following
form: "(except where such absorption of
freight would be such that its effect upon
competition will be to substantially lessen
competition) ."

1950

7815



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0684.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

The conference committee expressly
rejected strained interpretations of the
language of this amendment and stated
that the amendment to section 2-B
of S. 1008 amounted to a simple fusion
of the express language of both of the
floor amendments. Thus the amend-
ment expresses the     possibility  that
freight absorption   could, in   certain
cases, be found to have one of the effects
forbidden by the act and that under
such circumstances even the independ-
ent use of freight absorption is forbidden
by the act. The word, "will," was not
used in any context which would imply
that proof would be required of the cer-
tainty of a future event or result. Thus
it is clear that provision is made in the
bill to protect the antidiscriminatory
provisions of the Robinson-Patman Act
if it should appear that the effect of
freight absorption would -be such as
substantially to lessen competition.
What I seek to obtain by a declara-
tory congressional act of existing law
with respect to freight absorption is to
promote competition.
It is impossible for me to understand
in the light of these fa*cts-and they are
facts-which I have recited in describ-
ing the antitrust laws and sections 1 and
2 of this bill, how any person can enter-
tain the slightest doubt that the measure
does anything in the world except to re-
assert existing law, by clearing away un-
certainties which have arisen from con-
fused interpretation and comment.
SECTION 3 PREVENTS ALL PREDATORY PRACTICES
Now we come to section 3 of the bill.
It amends what is known as the pro-
cedural provision of the Clayton Act to
provide the method by which a seller
who makes a discrimination in price may
show that it was done in good faith to
meet competition. In the Moss case
(148 F. 2d 378), although the Federal
Trade Commission presented a case of
price discrimination having an adverse
affect upon competition, the court in an-
other dictum not necessary to the deci-
sion asserted that the Federal Trade
Commission was only called upon to show
a difference in price and that it would
then be incumbent upon the accused
business to prove that it was innocent of
injuring competition-obviously a sort of
Scotch verdict of guilty unless proven
innocent. It was a point of view never
asserted by the Federal Trade Commis-
sion, and it was obviously unfair to hon-
est business. It was a point of view that
did not exist under the facts of the Moss
case in which the proof of the effect was
clearly found by the Commission. So,
section 3 amends the procedural provi-
sion of the Robinson-Patman Act so as
to make it clear that the prima facie case
to be presented by the Trade Commis-
sion should be of a discrimination in
price the effect of which upon competi-
tion may be that prohibited by the law.
As I pointed out yesterday in response
to the inquiry of the Senator from Min-
nesota [Mr. THYEI, in the bill which I
introduced and in the bill which the con-
ferees have approved, we find this very
language which has been so much em-
phasized by the critics of the bill-"the
effect of which"-that is, the price, "upon

competition may be that prohibited" by
the law.
When this is done, the burden of justi-
fication falls upon the seller, and if the
seller does not prove his justification,
the Commission may issue its order to
end the price discrimination. Surely,
thus far, section 3 preserves the Robin-
son-Patman Act and deals justly with
business. Moreover, it contains the pre-
cise phrase, "the effect of which upon
conipetition may be that prohibited" on
which critics of the bill have placed so
much emphasis as an essential ingredient
of the Robinson-Patman Act.
Then there follows the provision that
a seller may justify a price discrimina-
tion on the ground that it was made in
good faith to meet the equally low price
of a competitor. Amendments were of-
fered to this proviso in each I-louse: the
Kefauver amendment, "(other than a
discrimination which will substantially
lessen competition) ", in the Senate;
and the Carroll amendment in the
House, "(if the discrimination is not such
that its effect upon competition may be
that prohibited by this section)."
In lieu of either of these amendments,
the conferees agreed upon the following
phrase at the end of section 3:
Except that this shall not make lawful any
combination, conspiracy, or collusive agree-
ment; or any monopolistic, oppressive, decep-
tive, or fraudulent practice.
This provision modifies everything in
the good-faith proviso so that the seller
who attempts to show that the discrimi-
nation was "made in good faith to meet
the equally low price of a competitor"
must show not only good faith in meet-
ing a real competitor's price, but also
must be in a position to show that if
there is a prima facie case, the discrimi-
nation would not have any of the con-
demned results of collusive agreements
or of monopolistic or oppressive practices.
Mr. THYE. Mr. President, will the
Senator yield?
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. FUL-
BRIGHT in the chair). Does the Senator
from Wyoming yield to the Senator from
Minnesota?
Mr. O'MAHONEY. I yield.
Mr. THYE. The language really clari-
fies and strengthens the law, rather than
detracting from or weakening it. Am I
correct in that statement?
Mr. O'MAHONEY. Precisely. The
Senator from Minnesota is quite correct.
Mr. THYE. Last evening, when I pro-
pounded a question to the Senator from
Wyoming, and when I also propounded a
question to the Senator from Maryland
[Mr. O'CoNoRI, I gained comfort and
assurance from both replies that what
is proposed by the conference report
would actually clarify and strengthen
the law, rather than weaken it, in such
a way as to make possible unfair trade
practices or discriminations.
I thank the Senator for yielding to me
for that brief comment.
Mr. O'MAHONEY. Mr. President, I
have no doubt at all in my mind that
that is the fact. I speak as a Member
of this body who throughout a rather
long service here has given the closest
possible attention that time would allow

me to the antitrust laws and to the
maintenance of a competitive economy.
I seek to maintain competition and to
keep open the door of opportunity to do
business and particularly to do competi-
tive business. I feel in all sincerity that
it is essential to do this by a legislative
enactment if we are to succeed in ex-
panding the economy of the United
States.
Mr. President, there are innumerable
persons who desire to engage in business,
who desire to promote the development
of raw materials, who desire to go into
the distribution of processed materials,
but who are intimidated from investing
their funds because of the uncertainties
which have been occasioned by the inter-
pretations of this act.
Again I say that nothing in this meas-
ure, if it is adopted-and I feel confident
that it will be-will haie the slightest
effect of impeding or obstructing or har-
assing the local retail distributor.
Thus the necessity for applying the
general standards of the Clayton Act to
every case of price discrimination is rec-
ognized and the power of the Federal
Trade Commission to act against price
discriminations, including freight ab-
sorption and delivered pricing, is pre-
served even when good faith is affirma-
tively  shown   when   the Commission
establishes that the practices, if con-
tinued, will contribute in any way to
oppression or the growth of monopoly
or to the lessening of competition.
GOOD -FAITH DEFENSE CONSTITUTES OBJECTIVE
STANDARD
The requirement that a seller who dis-
criminates in price to meet competition
must do so in good faith, is intended to
prevent the use of the proviso to justify
discriminations that in fact have either
the purpose or the effect of injuring com-
petition or of tending to create a monop-
oly. The term "good faith" is a broad
and flexible one. It must be interpreted
according to the rules of common sense.
There is nothing technical about it. No
legalistic toying with words is required to
define its meaning, and nothing in this
bill reduces its breadth or its flexibility.
Businessmen know what the effects of
their price determinations will be. It
would be impossible, it seems to me, to
justify discriminations if their naturally
foreseeable effect is to substantially les-
sen competition, or tend to create a
monopoly, or prevent, injure, or destroy
competition. Surely the competition of
one seller with another is worthy of con-
sideration by any law or any lawyers or
by any enforcement agency committed
to the preservation of competition.
CONFLICT RESOLVED BY OVERRIDING STANDARDS OF
SECTION 3
It is said that there is a conflict be-
tween section 2 and section 3. This is
to overlook completely the fact that the
conference report adopted the language
at the end of section 3, to use the lan-
guage of the conferees, "simply to cre-
ate a uniformity in language between
sections 2 and 3 of the bill." Of course,
the standards set forth in section 2 (b)
of the Clayton Act as amended by Sen-
ate bill 1008 are applicable to every kind

7816

MAY 26



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0685.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

0
of price discrimination. Section 2 of
Senate bill 1008 recognizes the good-
faith defense, but by reason of the
amendment provides that it may be over-
come. Likewise, in section 3, it may be
overcome when the price discrimination
becomes the instrument of collusive
agreement or monopolistic, oppressive,
deceptive, or fraudulent practices.
The utter lack of foundation for the
fears which have been expressed in cer-
tain quarters with respect to section 3
must be completely dissipated when the
section is analyzed in the light of sec-
tion 2 (a) of the Robinson-Patman Act.
That is the section, and the only section
in the Robinson-Patman Act, which de-
scribes the unlawful effects which the
law was intended to avoid. It is not
amended in this measure. It still stands
as the law of the land.
The entire scope of section 3 may be
described in summary fashion as follows:
First. The Federal Trade Commission
may make a prima facie case against any
discriminations the effect of which may
be that prohibited by section 2 (a) of
the Robinson-Patman Act.
Second. The burden of Justifying the
discriminations then falls completely
upon the respondent.
Third. Unless the respondent justifies
his action as provided in section 2 (a)
of the Robinson-Patman Act, the Fed-
eral Trade Commission may issue its or-
der to terminate the discriminatory prac-
tice.
Fourth. But the respondent may show
that the discrimination was. made in
good faith to meet the action of a com-
petitor.
Fifth. This good-faith defense will
not prevail if the Federal Trade Com-
mission can show collusion, or any mo-
nopolistic or oppressive effect. Those
words have been made as broad as the
antitrust laws and the decisions there-
under could make it possible to make
them.
OPPOSITION OF COMMISSION STAFF
Some of the lawyers in the Federal
Trade Commission have apparently re-
ported to the Commissioners a fear that
if Senate bill 1008 is adopted, it will re-
quire litigation to construe it.   They
would apparently prefer the lack of
clarity which the Supreme Court was
not able to dispel in the Rigid Steel
Conduit case. Dicta used by the courts,
uninformed discussion, and hasty inter-
pretations of the decisions have precipi-
tated within" the enforcement agencies
and in the courts debate which remains
unresolved. Doubts have been created
as to the meaning of the law. This un-
certainty only the Congress can clear
away, and I think that Senate bill 1008
serves this purpose admirably. It will
need far less litigation to clarify than
is required under the present state of
law; and if Congress should be deterred
from legislating by the argument that
its enactments might lead to lawsuits,
then Congress might just as well give up
the practice of legislating, and might
let the bureaus govern us in their wise
discretion.
Mr. President, I made some mention
of the Moss case as an illustration of the

lack of clarity of the law. The decision
in the Moss case is a perfect example.
That case was decided in 1948 by the
circuit court of appeals for the second
circuit. The decision was reported in
One Hundred Forty-eighth Federal Re-
ports, volume 2. However, the meaning
of the opinion was so unclear that the
court itself sought to amend the opin-
ion, and the amendment of the opinion,
by the same judges, the same court,
appears in One Hundred Fifty-fifth Fed-
eral Reports, volume 2.
This is another example of the lack of
clarity which we undertake here to dis-
solve by making the language so pre-
cise that, it seems to me, no one can
fail to understand it. In my opinion,
it is the duty of the Congress of the
United States, and particularly the duty
of those Members of the Congress who
actively desire to promote the establish-
ment of new and competitive business,
to take this obstruction of confused in-
terpretation away from the path of
those who would invest their funds in
free competitive enterprise.
An examination of the criticisms which
have been made by some members of the
staff of the Federal Trade Commission-
and they have been good enough to send
me their criticisms-shows that they are
based upon the fact that language used
from time to time by the courts in in-
terpreting section 5 of the Federal Trade
Commission Act or the Clayton Act was
not used at one point or another in this
bill. For example, in the Gratz and
Beechnut cases, the court interpreted
the law to mean that a "dangerous tend-
ency unduly to hinder competition" was
an effect of an action or practice which
could be prohibited as an unfair method
of competition. Since this phrase was
never in the original statute, the court
found no difficulty in finding that the
acts complained of had that effect, and
therefore it had no difficulty in finding
that such an effect of the acts complained
of did constitute an unfair trade prac-
tice within the prohibition of section 5.
So it seems to me, Mr. President, there
is no reason why this precise phrase
should be put into the law. I have sought
to use words which are apt, to cover
every possible violation of the antitrust
laws, and I think the bill does it.
But by the theory of the critics every
descriptive phrase used by a court in the
interpretation of a statute would have to
be added to every subsequent amdndment
in order to avoid implied repeal. The
thing prohibited is "unfair methods of
competition" because they have the ef-
fect of injuring or suppressing competi-
tion or because they display a dangerous
tendency unduly to hinder competition.
We need no new phrases to protect the
antitrust laws so long as the Federal
Trade Commission remains alert to de-
tect unfair methods of competition and
their effects.
The whole purpose of this bill, and I
believe its sole effect, will be through an
act of Congress to resolve the confusion
which has been a real source of concern
to honest managers of business, who have
no responsibility for having created the
confusion, and who wish to make their

contributions to the economy by expand-
ing their operations and financing new
enterprises.
Congress owes to such citizens an obli-
gation to resolve their doubts. This bill
will furnish no aid or comfort to any mo-
nopolist. It will not curtail the powers
and authority of the Department of Jus-
tice or the Federal Trade Commission.
It will injure no retailer. But it will, in
my opinion, be a substantial stimulus to
the expansion of a really free, competi-
tive economy. It ought to be enacted
without further delay, and, Mr. Presi-
dent, I express the profound hope that
the Senate of the United States, early
next week, may follow the example of the
House of Representatives and approve
the conference report.
Mr. DOUGLAS. Mr. President, will
the Senator from Wyoming yield?
Mr. O'MAHONEY. I shall be very
glad to yield to my colleague.
Mr. McMAHON.       Mr. President, I
wanted to ask the Senator from Wyo-
ming a few questions, but I defer to the
Senator from Illinois.
Mr. DOUGLAS. I thank the Senator.
Mr. McMAHON. Is the Senator from
Illinois going to ask the Senator from
Wyoming questions, or is he going to
make a speech?
Mr. DOUGLAS. I should like to ask
some questions.
Mr. McMAHON. Very well.
Mr. O'MAHONEY. Mr. President, I
yield to the Senator from Illinois.
Mr. DOUGLAS. Mr. President, may
I first thank the Senator from Wyoming
for at last stating just what the alleged
confusion has been in the decisions of
the Supreme Court and of the Seventh
Circuit Court? *
Mr. O'MAHONEY. I move to amend
the words of the Senator by striking out
the words "at last," because I explained
that, when I introduced the bill.
Mr. DOUGLAS. I am very grateful to
the Senator from Wyoming for pin
pointing what the alleged grounds, of
confusion are. I take it the alleged
grounds are the nineteenth footnote in a
decision of the Supreme Court in the
Cement case, which appears on page 35
of the supplement:
While we hold that the Commission's find-
ings of combination were supported by evi-
dence, that does not mean that existence of
a combination is an indispensable ingredient
of an unfair method of competition under
the Trade Commission Act.
Mr. O'MAHONEY. That language was
seized upon by representatives of some
of the large concentrated industries in
the United States to delude independent
competitors into the belief that now, if
they  individually  adopted   delivered
prices, or if they individually absorbed
freight, they would be violating the law.
The footnote does not, in my judgment,
mean that. But what I judge and what
the Senator from Illinois judges, will not
control the thinking of the man who,
either by himself or with associates,
wishes to invest $100,000, or $500,000,
or $1,000,000, or some such sum in ex-
panding a business.
Mr. DOUGLAS. I may say I am de-
lighted  the Senator from    Wyoming
agrees with me that the attempt by the

1950

7817



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0686.txt

'CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

steel industry and the cement industry
to make small-business men believe that
the independent absorption of freight
was illegal was an attempt to delude.
The Senator from Wyoming used that
phrase. I am delighted the Senator from
Wyoming agrees that no such interpre-
tation can be put upon this footnote,
thrown in incidentally in the course of a
decision.
Mr. O'MAHONEY. That is correct.
Mr. DOUGLAS. May I ask whether it
is necessary for the legislature of the
