Mr. ROGERS. How large?
Mr. BOWDEN. It is a place of 8,000 or about that large. Tt bids
fair to become one of the largest cities on the seacoast. This buildinA
is principally needed for a custom-house. There is a custom-house
there, and the Government have to pay for the major part of the hotel
there in which to transact the custom-house business.
Mr. ROGER8. Is not that the second bill for that Congressional
district to-day 9
Mr. BOWDEN. Yes, sir; that is the fact.
Mr. ROGERS3. Getting along very well!
Mr. KERR, of Pennsylvania. Are you a member of the Committee
on Public Buildings and Grounds?
Mr. BOWDEN, I am not, and I had a good deal of diffmculty in get-
ing a favorable report on this bill.
Mr. KERR, of Pennsylvania. I think the committee should refuse
topass this bill. The chairman of the Committee on Public Buildings
and Grounds has created a combination here fbr the purpose of dealing
out public buildings to the faithful and the few who happen to be in favor
with the committee. The committee seems to be loaded. The gen-
tleman from Maine in control of this public-building trust, no doubt a
little frightened at the eagerness with which they take the pork, at-
tempts to have the committee rise; but, like Smiley's frog, it is loaded,
and he can not get it up. The combination has somewhat the best ot
the gentleman from Maine [Mr. MILLIKEN], and he can not stop the
machine now when he would like to.
I want to say in connection with this that this way of dealing out
public buildings is all wrong. It is giving away the people's money
without question as to whether there is any merit in the demands or
whether there is any public necessity for a public building in the sev-
eral localities. And that is what we object to.
I hope the committee will have this bill laid aside and not insist
upon its consideration now. Let the committee go slow and consider
this matter. We are not asking anything unreasonable. All we. ask
isdue and proper consideration. We contend that at this point, at New-
port News, there is not a present necessity for a public building. There
is no statement of the population given in the report. The town is very
small. It maybe a growing town, but my information is that it is sim-
ply a village, quite unpretentious and without sufficiefit public busi-
ness to justify this expense.
Now, I think the gentleman Who represents this district has no rea-
son to complain. The committee have given him a public building to-
day and he ought to be willing to wait a little while, to let this matter
be investigated, so that we may know whether there is merit in the re-
quest for a public building in this locality. If Newport News is en-
titled to a public building, I am willing to vote for it, but I think the
gentleman should give the committee an opportunity to know the full
facts. There are other localities seeking appropriations here or the
enactment of bills to give them public buildings in cases that are
meritorious. I think those towns that have doubtful necessities should
stand aside until those localities seeking public buildings where there
is a pressing public necessity have been heard. I hope the committee
will not pass this bill.
The gentleman has fared well enough already at the hands of the
committee; many millions of the people's money are involved in these
measures; let us proceed with care and not rush over these matters'with
undue haste. Since I have been upon the floor asking for intelligent
information concerning the necessity for a public building at certain
points, a number of members have come to me and begged that I with-
draw opposition, as it would interfere with the passage of their bills.
This simply explains what I mean by combination. Bills for public
buildings at doubtful places are called up, and members with meas-
ures that have merit are forced into voting for the one that they may
secure the other. What an imposition on the tax-payer. I give notice
here and now my voice and vote will be raised against such reckless
extravagance and doubtful methods of legislation.
Mr. MILLIKEN. I desire to say in reply to my friend on the other
side [Mr. KERR, of Pennsylvania], and in answer to some gentlemen
on this side of the House who have spoken in somewhat the same
line, that the Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds has been
doing just exactly what he proposes it should do-that is, out of a
large pile of bills, two hundred and thirty in number, which have been
referred to that committee, we have reported to the House those which
we believe to be most meritorious, without regard to politics or any
other consideration but merit, and it is a mere accident that when we
came to examine the Calendar this morning we found a large majority
of Republican bills high up on that Calendar. There has never been
an instance within my recollection, and I am sure there has never been
an instance when the question of the political complexion of the dis-
trict or of the member who represented the district has been consid-
ered in that committee by either Republican or Democrat.
Mr. KERR, of Pennsylvania. If the gentleman understood me to
refer to the politics of the gentleman who represents this district he
was mistaken.
Mr. MILLIKEN. I did not so understand the gentleman; but I am
not talking to that point just now.
Mr. THOMPSON. I will ask the gentleman from Maine [Mr. MIL-

LIKEN] whether this bill has not been called up out of its regular
order.
Mr. MILLIKEN. I am coming to that in a minute. This bill was
understood by me to be a Republican bill, and it has not been called
up in the order in which it would have been called up had it been un-
derstood to be a Democratic bill, but two distinguished Democrats of
this House, who I think will be believed as readily as any Democrat,
and I do not know but as readily as anybody in the world [laughter],
came to me and stated that we had made a mistake, that this was a
Democratic bill and should have been called up previously. I asked
them to go and assure themselves about it. They came back saying
that they had done so; and then, because I supposed from the infor-
mation which I obtained right here that this was a Democratic bill, I
had it placed in the order in which it has been called up to-day.
Now, so far as the merits of the bill are concerned they are before
this committee. So far as the passage of the bill through the House is
concerned, that question also is for this committee and for the House,
and I assure gentlemen that, while I believe the bill has merits and
should pass, I shall not grumble at whatever this committee or the
House desires to do.
Mr. KERR, of Pennsylvania. I think the gentleman misunderstood
me. The question whether this bill is a Democratic measure or a Re-
publican measure, whether it comes from a Democratic member or from
a Republican member, is not the question here. That has nothing to
do with the merits.
Mr. MILLIKEN. I did not speak of that in reply to the gentleman,
but in reply to the suggestion which was made that I had brought the
bill up out of its order.
Mr. KERR, of Pennsylvania. And thatis just what we are object-
ing to here, for Republicans and Democrats to form a combination
such as has been formed here to-day to endeavor to get through public-
building bills without reference to their merits.
Mr. MILLIKEN. If the gentleman is cognizant of, or if he is a
party to, any "combination," he has a right to testify to its existence;
but he must not include me in it.
Mr. KERR, of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, I can say here and
now that gentlemen have been running to and fro on this floor asking
members not to object to their bills, saying that they had made an ar-
rangement with the other side and that if they did not stand by that
they could not get their bills through.
Mr. MILLIKEN. Well, if the gentleman expects to change human
nature he will have a hard job.
Mr. KERR, of Pennsylvania. I do not expect to do that. I would
not attempt to change your nature.
Mr. MILLIKEN. No; because you would make it worse if you did.
[Laughter.]
Mr. KERR, of Pennsylvania. That would be pretty hard to do.
[Laughter.]
Mr. BUCHANAN, of New Jersey. Mr. Chairman, the question here
is not whether this bill emanates from a Democrat or from a Repub-
lican, nor whether it is thesecond bill for a building in any particular
Congressional district. The only question for us to determine as legis-
lators is the question, Is this bill right ? Ought it to pass? Now, sir,
I know something about the section of country where this proposed
building is to be erected.
On my first visit to Newport News, which was only a few years ago,
there was but one building there, but to-day it is the great shipping
port upon the Chesapeake Bay, and I believe that in a very few years
it will be the gleat outgoing port for a large portion of the products of
this country south of Mason and Dixon's line. I believe that the ex-
ports that will go out through the capes will in a short time be greater
than that which will go out from all the coast besides below Cape
Charles, and I believe this to be one of the instances in which it will
be the part of economy to erect a public building at once.
This, I say, is one of those cases where it is true economy for the
Government to erect a public building, not necessarily as a post-office,
but as a custom-house. A custom-house there is needed, a building in
which the Government officials may have their offices and may have
facilities for seeing that the Government is not defrauded of its reve-
nues. Some gentlemen upon this floor do not seem to know of the com-
merce that is going out between those capes, nor how very rapidly it
is growing in volume.
Mr. WILLIAMS, of Ohio. What is the population?
Mr. BUCHANAN, of New Jersey. It is not a question of popula-
tion, it is a question of trade. So far as the custom-house is concerned
it is wholly a question of trade, and that is what I am trying to enforce
upon this body; but some gentlemen seem to think that the number
of men, women, and babies in a place must be ascertained before we
can tell whether a custom-house is needed or not. A practical busi-
ness man would secure the ground and erect the building now.
Mr. CUTCHEON. What are the customs receipts?
Mr. BUCHANAN, of New Jersey. The exports last year were over
$6,000,000, nearly $7,000,000.
Mr. CUTCHEON. And the receipts?
Mr. BUCHANAN, of New Jersey. The receipts were correspond-
ingly large.

5460

MALY 29,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0409.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

Mr. CUTCHEON. Yes, I presume so, but I thought that perhaps
the gentleman could give us some definite information on the subject.
Mr. BUCHANAN, of New Jersey. The fact is, Mr. Chairman, as I
stated before, that this commerce is increasing in a rapid ratio. It must
necessarily increase and I have not a particle of doubt that by the time
this proposed building is under roof the commerce of the place will be
double what it is now, perhaps treble.
Mr. DIBBLE. There is a matter of fact in relation to this bill which
we have not yet ascertained. We have sent a clerk to the committee-
room to ascertain it. In the mean time f ask that the bill be passed
over for the present, and taken up immediately after the next bill.
Mir. BOWDEN. I do not see why that should be done. There is no
reason why this matter should not be acted upon now as well as at any
other time.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Virginia [Mr. BOWDEN]
objects.
Air. DIBBLE. I hope that the gentleman will withdraw his ob-
jection.
Mr. CLEMENTS. This is the third Republican bil. called up in
succession.
A MEMBER. There has been a mistake.
Mr. CLEIENTS. There may be a mistake; but it ought to be cor-
rected.
Mr. DIBBLE. I do not think the gentleman from Virginia [Mr.
BOWDEN] can assist the passage of his bill by objecting to my proposi-
tion.
Mr. CUTCHEON. Mr. Chairman, it seems to me we have not the
information that this committee ought to have in order to act intelli-
gently upon this bill. Nobody states definitely what the postal receipts
at this place are; nobody knows what the custom receipts are; nobody
knows what the population is. This is the second bill for this Con-
gressional district which has been considered, and is about to be passed
here to-day. Now there are in this country great cities that have no
public buildings; there are very large Congressional districts that have
had no consideration; and I submit that it is about time to "go slow. I
I want to say, Mr. Chairman, that in myopinion we are reducing "the
surplus" with very great rapidity. Thejournals are getting a little hot
here this afternoon with the motion we have got up, and there will be a
combustion if we do not look out. In the interest of public buildings I
suggest that we should check down a little, slow the speed of the
machine, and take time enough to find out what need there is of this
public building, and whether it can not wait until next winter before
this Congressional district has a second public building.
Mr. DIBBLE. I move to amend by striking out the last word.
Mr. BOWDEN. If the gentleman will permit me, I will withdraw
my objection to his request.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman from Virginia withdraws his ob-
jection. The gentleman from South Carolina asks unanimous consent
that this bill be passed over for the present. Is there objection ?
Mr. COWLES. I desire to be heard.
The CHAIRMAV. Does the gentleman object?
Mr. COWLES. I desire to be heard on the bill for five minutes.
The CHAIRMAN. But the pending question is whether the bill
shall be passed over temporarily.
Mr. COWLES. I move to strike out the last word.
Mr. DIBBLE. That was my motion, and if there is to be discussion
I am entitled to the floor.
The CHAIRMAN. The pending question is on the request of the
gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. DIBBLE] that this bill be passed
over for the present.
Mr. COWLES. I desire to be recognized.
Mr. DIBBLE. I have the floor if there is to be discussion.
The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection to the request of the gentle-
man from South Carolina ? The Chair hears none.
Mr. GEAR. I wish to state that the value of the imports at this
town last year was $274,000.
Mr. DIBBLE (after a pause). Mr. Chairman, I will state the posi-
tion of the Newport News bill. When the Calendar was arranged-
Mr. COWLES. I rise to a point of order. I understood that the
Newport News bill was withdrawn.
Mr. DIBBLE. But I call it up again.
The CHAIRMAN. The bill was not withdrawn, but passed over for
the present; and now the gentleman from South Carolina desires to call
it up again.
Mr. DIBBLE. I am stating why it was passed over.
Mr. COWLES. I desire to be recognized.
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair will recognize the gentleman, if he
desires it, after the gentleman from South Carolina has spoken.
Mr. DIBBLE. Mr. Chairman, when the bill for a public building
at Newport News was arranged in the Calendar order as first determined
on by the committee, it was put in its right place, because a House bill
was introduced by the gentleman from Virginia [Mr. BOWDEN] and
the Senate bill was reported; but I and other gentlemen here had in-
formation, which it turns out was entirely erroneous, that the House
bill bad been introduced by Mr. George D. Wise while a member of
this House on the Democratic side; and relying upon that information

and endeavoring to correct the arrangement, this bill was put in out of
its order. In view of the facts, I move that it be reinstated in its
proper place on the Calendar under the order of the House. It does
not belong in the place it now occupies, and therefore I desire to with-
draw it tbr the purpose I have stated. I hope the gentleman from
North Carolina [Mr. CowLEs] will speak on some other bill. This
came up by reason of a misapprehension and is deranging the order,
causing injustice to gentlemen on both sides of the House.
Mr. MILLIKEN. Mr. Chairman, befbre the gentleman sits down
I will ask him, in order to make this thing exact, whether he did not
himself inform me-
Mr. DIBBLE. I so informed the chairman of the committee, hav-
ing erroneous information myself. That information being now found
to be erroneous, the bill ought to be withdrawn, and take its proper
order.
The CHAIRMAN. Does the gentleman withdraw the bill?
Mr. MILLIKEN. 1 will ask to withdraw the bill.
The CHAIRMAN. The bill is withdrawn.
PUBLIC BUILDING, ROME, GA.
The next business called up by the Committee on Public Buildings
and Grounds was the bill (H. R. 3279) for the erection of a public
building at Rome, Ga.
The bill was read, as follows:
Be it enacted, etc., That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, an-
thorized and directed to purchase or otherwise provide a suitable site and cause
to he erected thereon a substantial and commodious building, with fire-proof
vaults extending to each story, for the use and accommodation of the United
States post-office and other offices of the Government at Rome, Ga. The site and
build ingthereon,when completed upon plans and specifications to be previously
made and approved by the Secretary" of the Treasury, shall not exceed in cost
the sum of $100,000, which said sum is hereby appropriated for that purpose out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, nor shall any site be
purchased until estimates for the erection of a building which will furnish suf-
ficient accommodations for the transaction of the public business, and which
shall not exceed in cost the balance of the sum herein limited after the site shall
have been purchased and paid for, shall have been approved by the*Secretary
of the Treasury: Provided, That no part of said sum shall be expended until a
valid title to the said site shall be vested in the United States, nor until the
State of Georgia shall cede to the United States exclusive jurisdiction over the
same, during the time the United States shall be or remain the owner thereof,
for all purposes except the administration of the criminal laws of said State and
the service of civil process therein.
The committee recommend the adoption of the following amendment,
to wit:
Strike out the words "one hundred" and insert in lieu thereof the word
"fifty," in line 12. Also strike out the words " which said sum is hereby ap-
propriated for that purpose out of nny money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated," in lines 12, 13, and 14.
The amendments recommended by the committee were adopted.
Mr. KILGORE. I can not understand why North Georgia should
have all the money in the Treasury. [Laughter.]      Only yesterday
twenty-five thousand-
Mr. CLEMENTS. This is a question of a public building, not dol-
lars.
The CHAIRMAN. In the absence of objection, the appropriation
clause in the bill will be stricken out.
Mr. MILLIKEN. That is embodied in the committee amendments
and has been adopted.
The bill as amended was laid aside to be reported to the House with
the recommendation that it do pass.
PUBLIC BUILDING, ROCKFORD, ILL.
The next business reported from the Committee on Public Buildings
and Grounds was the bill (H. R. 4559) to provide for the construction
of a public building at Rockford, Ill.
The bill was read, as follows:
Be ,t enacted, etc., That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby,
authorized and directed to purchase, acquire by condemnation, or otherwise
provide a site, and cause to be erected thereon a suitable, commodious, and
substantial building, including fire-proof vaults, heating and ventilating appa-
ratus, elevators, and approaches, for the use and accommodation of the United
States post-office and other Government offices in the city of Rockford and State
ot Illinois, the cost of the site and the building, including fire-proof vaults,
heating and ventilating apparatus, elevators, and approaches, complete, not to
exceed thesum of $00,000, which said sum of $100,000 islhereby appropriated for
said purpose, out of any moneys in the United States Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, upon the following provisions:
Proposals for the sale of land suitable for said site shall be invited by public
advertisement in one or more ofthe newspapers of said city for at least fourteen
days prior to the date specified in the advertisement for opening the proposals.
The proposals made in response tosaid public advertisement,at the time named
in the advertisement, or within ten days subsequent'thereto, shall be received,
opened, and considered bya commission of three persons, who shall be appointed
by the Secretary of the Treasury, and it shall be the duty of said commssioners
to forward to the Secretary of tie Treasury, within forty days from the date
named in the advertisement for opening the proposals.a written report, with
the original proposals, maps, etc., and the oaths prescribed by act of Congress
approved June 23,1874. and to definitely state in said report the site selected by
them, and their selection of the site shall be final, and each commissioner shall
be allowed a conpensation for his services of an amnount within the discretion
of the Secretary of the Treasury, said compensation not to exceed $200 and
actual traveling expenses to each commissioner.
So much of the appropriation herein made as may be necessary to defray the
expenses of advertising for proposals, compensation, and actual traveling ex-
penses of the commissioners, and other expenses incident to the selection of
the site shall be immediately available.
So much of said appropriation as may be necessary for the preparation of
sketch-plans, drawings, specifications, and detailed estimates for the building by

1890.

5461



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0410.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

the Supervising Architect of the Treasury Department shall be available im-
med lately upon the receipt of the report of the commissioners selecting the site.
So much of said appropriation as may be necessary to make payment for the
site shall be available upon the receipt of the written opinion of the Attorney-
General in favor of the validity of title to the site selected, and when the State
of Illinoisshall have ceded to the United States jurisdiction over the site selected,
during the time that the United States shall be or remain the owner thereof, for
all purposes except the administration of the criminal laws of said State and
the service of civil process therein, or so much of said appropriation as may be
necessary to acquire title to the site by condemnation shall be immediately
available.
And after the site shall have been paid for and the sketch-plans and detailed
estimates for the building shall have been prepared by the Supervising Architect
and approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of the Interior,
and the Postmaster-General, the balance of said appropriation shall be available
for the erection and completion of the building, including fire-proof vaults,
heating and ventilating apparatus, elevators, and approaches.
Thebuilding shall be unexposed to danger from fire by an open space of at
least 40 feet on each side, including streets and alleys.
The report (by Mr. POST) is as follows:
The Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds, to whom was referred the
bill (1H. R. 4559) to provide for the construction of a public building atRockford,
Ill., having considered the same, submit the following report:
Rocklord, Ill., is a city of upwards of 25,000 inhabitants, and rapidly growing.
Thc population in 1880 vas 13,129. It is an active manufacturing town, having
upwards of 5,000 employ~s on the pay-rolls of its one-hundred and fifty manu-
facturing establishments-watch, watch-case, silverware, boots and shoces,
clothing, knit-goods, cotton, woolen, agricultural implements, furniture, etc.
In furniture alone there are twelve factories, employing over 1,100 hands. There
are live seed farms and two insurance companies, which do a very large postal
business.
. The postal business in 1878 amounted to but 818,00; in 1888 it was 4,166.33,
and is increasing at this rate.
In the post-office are employed thirteen letter-carriers, eight clerks, and two
mail messengers.
The work of the office is now necessarily performed in a space of 30 by 100
feet, and twice as much is required, as everything is greatly crowded, especially
in the mailing department, where upwards of 20,000 pieces of outgoing mail
daily must be handled in a space of 15 by 20 feet.
A site which would be central and suitablecould be now purchased at a cost
of, say, $20,000. but values are enhancing rapidlyin the city, which will probably
double in population in ten years and more than double in wealth and volume
of business.
During last year (1889) there was of new capital invested 6525,000; new busi-
ness blocks.$136,900; new factories $311,100; permanent city improvements,
$59,50:; public buildings erected, $77,900; new residences and miscellaneous,
5401,000.
In view of all these facts, your committee recommend the passage of the bill.
The'CHAIRMAN. In the absence of objection, the appropriating
clause of the bill will be stricken out.
There was no objection, and it was so ordered.
Mr. ROGERS. I would like to know if this is the second bill to-
day for Rockford?
Mr. HITT. It is not. Perhaps the gentleman is thinking of Rock-
land. This is the only bill for Rockford.
Mr. Chairman, Rockford is a very active, flourishing, business town
of over 25,000 population, with immense manufacturing interests, and
the business of the post-office is so large that this last year it reached
nearly $46,000. They need the public building badly, for the present
rented office quarters are overcrowded and the inconvenience is increas-
ing every day. I will not delay this committee by further details in be-
half of a measure of such evident merit. The report of the Committee
on Public Buildings and Grounds, where this bill was examined with
much care and where I presented very full information touching the
importance, the industries, and the wants of the city of Rockfbrd,
states the more important facts.
The bill as amended was laid aside to be reported to the House with
the recommendation that it do pass.
PUBLIC BUILDING, FORT DODGE, IOWA.
The next business called up by the Committee on Public Buildings
and Grounds was the'bill (S. 953) for the erection of a public building
at Fort Dodge, Iowa.
Mr. COWLES. I desire to have read from the Clerk's desk an item
of some interest bearing upon one of the bills presented to-day.
The Clerk read as follows:
To the HOusc of Representatives:
I return herewith without approval House bill 4467, entitled "An act for the
erection of a public building at Bar Harbor, in Maine."
The entire town within which'Bar Harbor is situated contained in 1880 1,639
inhabitants, as appears by the census of that year. There is no pretense that
there is any need of a public building there, except to accommodate the post-
office.
This is a third-class office, and the Government does not pay rent for offices
of that class. The gross receipts of the office for the year ended June 30, 1887,
tre reported by the Postmaster-General at 85,837. The postmaster reports that
he employs five clerks in the summer and three In the winter. The fact that
Bar flarbor is a place of very extensive summer resort makes its population ex-
ceedingly variable, and during a part of the year it is quite likely that the in-
flux of pleasure-seekers may make a more commodious post-office desirable,
though there does not seem to be much complaint of present inconvenience.
The postmaster pays a rent of 6500 per annum for his present quarters.
The amount appropriated by the bill is quite moderate, being only 895,000, but
the postmaster expresses the opinion that a proper site alone would cost from
twenty-five to thirty thousand dollars.
I am decidedly of the opinion thatIf a public building is to be erected at this
place, of which at present there appears to be no necessity, it should be done
under a system which will not give the post-office and the postmaster there an
advantage over others of their class.
GROVER CLEVELAND.
EXECUTrvE MANSION, June 5, 1888.
Mr. COWLES. I desired to call the attention of the committee and
of the House to the bill named in that veto message, because when it

comes up for consideration in the House I imagine we will have but
little time to discuss it there. I therefore take this means of intro-
ducing the subject, and also to call the attention of the gentleman who
Dresides at the other end of the avenue, in the Executive Mansion, at
the present time to the wisdom contained in that message in regard to
the proposed measure and its application to many other bills of like
nature.
The erection of public buildings throughout the whole country is be-
coming a matter of very grave concern. They are getting to be almost
as plentiful now as martin boxes, and they would be just about as
much use as martin boxes in winter time if the gentlemen on both
sides of this Chamber would unite with me to abolish the entire system
of internal-revenue laws and tax, and reduce the tariff to a revenue
basis. We could repeal these laws and get along without them.
A MEMBER. How about the post-offices?
Mr. COWLES. Oh, the post-offices get along very well. They al-
ways did without any such provision. We had very few public build-
ings erected for post-offices in the olden times, and we got along just
about as well as we do now. But your common excuse was in the
Forty-ninth and Fiftieth Congresses, when you held up your hands in
holy horror and asked, "Do gentlemen intend to keep the money in the
Treasury ?" 1 Whenever there was an opportunity for appropriations
of money, it was poured out by shovelfuls. There is no account taken
of the extravagance.
I say this is a very poor way to get rid of the money in the Treasury.
That money represents the hard earnings of our people. It represents
the sweat and toil of the nation. It comes from the burdens they have
to bear; and I say the way to get rid of the surplus in the Treasury is to
repeal the unjust tax laws which we have already on our statute-books,
both the exorbitant tariff and the inquisitorial and oppressive internal-
revenue tax and system of taxation also.
Mr. WILLIAIS, of Illinois, rose.
Mr. COWLES. I will yield to you directly. I believe I have an
hour.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman is entitled to an hour.
Mr. COWLES. Now, I desire to say further that this matter of
public buildings is getting to be as bad as the river and harbor bill.
Why, sir, there are more jobs and mutual-admiration societies run
under it than any other legislative proposition Ih the House-regular
"you tickle me and I'll tickleyou I Isociety. Alen get together on both
sides of the Chamber; they log-roll and say, "Now, what bills will you
have put through?" or, "How much will you take?"      "What bill
will you have reported?" "What bills will you have called up?"
This is carried on to a great extent; it casts a disgrace upon our legis-
lation, and it ought to stop here. These public-buildiny bills ought
to stand on their own merits or not at all, as the river and harbor ap-
propriations ought to stand on their merits.
I favor the erection of public buildings where they are absolutely
needed for the accommodation of the Federal courts and for post-offices
and custom-houses; but in many instances where they have Federal
courts they can be accommodated as in the past, when the business in
the Federal courts in most of the interior districts at least was much
larger than it is now, and when they were held in the county court-
houses or State buildings being used for that purpose.
Now, sir, I insist that this matter has gone far enough. Wearejust
shoveling the money out of the Treasury by the millions; scattering
it broadcast, here and there, indiscriminately, except that some por-
tions of the country-the district I represent, for instance-get very
little, getting none at all in fact.
Mr. MORSE. What is done with the money that is spent forpublic
buildings. Where does it go?
Mr. COWLES. To the experts and artisans and the contractors, who
for the most part live in Washington and other large cities, and under the
iniquitous tax system we have, both by tariff and internal revenue, it
is not very long before the money is brought back into the Treasury,
and the people reap no advantage of it. It is not left with them long
enough to answer their needs.
Now, sir, if you repeal that iniquitous system, cut down the tariff
to a revenue basis, and abolish the internal-revenue tax, especially the
tax upon tobacco-a tax upon agriculture and a tax upon the labor and
the sweat of the poor farming people of this country [applause on the
Democratic side]-you will get rid of a good deal of the surplus in the
Treasury without scattering it abroad without any proper necessity and
leave the money in the pockets of the people where it belongs.
I sympathize with my friend from Virginia [Mr. EDMUNDS], who
has, I believe, one of the most meritorious bills upon the Calendar and
has not been allowed to get it up for consideration. Like him I should
have been in Richmond to-day, participating in the tribute to the mem-
ory of the honored dead, but for the duty which called me here.
I sympathize with my friends who come here with certain jobs foisted
upon them. I know their constituency foist them on them and say,
" ' You must get through a public building for this town or for that, or
you will never get back to Congress any more." I sympathize very
much with them when that is the case; but if campaign money
must be expended-and I am opposed to expending it, and think it is
a disgrace to the people, and a disgrace to the men who spend it, and

5462

MAY 29,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0411.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

a pollution of the ballot-box; still, if it is to be spent, let it come out
of the pockets of the men who want to profit by it, instead of coming
out of the Treasury of the Government, thereby increasing the burdens
of the people to serve individual necessity.
Mr. Chairman, I believe I have-
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair would suggest to the gentleman that
there is nothing now before the committee. [Laughter.]
Mr. COWLES. I do not understand the Chair.
The CHAIRMAN. Possibly the bill had better be read before any-
thing further is done.
Mr. COWLES. Can I be recognized after the bill is read?
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair will take pleasure in recognizing the
gentleman.
The Clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 953) for the erection of a public building at Fort Dogde, Iowa.
Be it enacted, etc., That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, au-
thorized and directed to acquire, by purchase, condemnation, or otherwise, a
site and cause to be erected thereon a suitable building, including fire-proof
vaults, heating and ventilating apparatus, elevators, and approaches, for the
use and accommodatioh of the United States post-office and other Government
offices, in the city of Fort Dodge and State of Iowa. the cost of said site and
building, including said vaults, heating and ventilating apparatus, elevators,
and approaches, complete, not to exceed the sum of $100,000, which said sum
of e100.00 is hereby appropriated for said purpose, out of any moneys in the
United States Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
Proposals for the sale of land suitable for said site shall be invited by public
advertisement in one or more of the newspapers of said city of largest circula-
tion for at least twenty days prior to the date specified In said advertisement
for the opening of said proposals.
Proposals made in responsetosaid advertisementshall be addressed and mailed
to the Secretary of the Treasury, who shall then cause the said proposed sites,
and such others as he may think proper to designate, to be examined in person
by an agent of the Treasury Department, who shall make written report to
said Secretary of the results of said examination, and of his recommendation
thereon, and the reasons therefor, which shall be accompanied by the original
proposals and all maps, plats, and statements which shall have come into his
posses-ion relating to the said proposed sites.
If, upon consideration of said report and accompanying papers, the Secretary
of the Treasury shall deem further investigation necessary, he may appoint a
commission of not more than three persons, one of whom shall be an officer of
the Treasury Department, which commission shall also examine the said pro-
posed sites, and such others as the Secretary of the Treasury may designate, and
grant such hearings in relation thereto as they shall deem necessary, and said
commission shall, within thirty days after such examination, make to the Sec-
retary of the Treasury written report of their conclusion in the premises, ac-
companied by all statements, maps, plats, and documents taken by or submitted
to them, in like mariner as hereinbefore provided In regard to the proceedings
of said agent of the Treasury Department. and the Secretary of the Treasury
shall thereupon finally determine the location of the building to be erected.
The coinmpensation of said commissioners shall be fixed. by the Secretary of the
Treasury but the same shall not exceed 85 per day and actual traveling ex-
penses: lrovided, however, That the member of said commission appointed
from the Treasury Department shall be paid only his actual traveling expenses.
So much of the appropriation herein made as may be necessaryto defray the
expenses of advertising for proposals, actual traveling expenses of said agent,
and the compensation and actual traveling expenses of said commissioners, and
other expenses incident to the selection of the site, and for necessary survey
thereof shall be immediately available.
So much of said appropriation as may be necessary for the preparation of
sketch-plans, drawings, specifications, and detailed estimates for the building
by the Supervising Architect of the Treasury Departmentshall be available im-
mediately upon the approval by the Secretary of the Treaury of such site.
No money appropriated by this act shall be available, except as hereinbefore
U rovided, until a valid title to the site for said building shall be vested in the
oiled States, nor until the State of Iowa shall have ceded to the United States
exclusive jurisdiction over the same, during the time the United States shall be
or remain the owner thereof, for all purposes except the administration of the
criminal laws of said State and the service [of] process therein.
After the said site shall have been paid for and the sketch-plans and detailed
estimates for the building shall have been prepared by the Supervising Archi-
tect and approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of the Inte-
rior, and the Postmaster-General. the balance of said appropriation shall be
available for the erection and completion of the building, including fire-proof
vaults, heating and ventilating apparatus, elevators, and approaches.
The building sh11 be unexposed to danger from fire by an open space of at
least 40 feet on each side, including streets and alleys.
During the reading of the bill,
Mr. COWLES said: A parliamentaryinquiry, Mr. Chairman. The
bill was read or commenced to be read before I began my remarks.
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair is informed that the bill was not
read.
Mr. COWLES. Did not the Clerk read the bill?
The CHAIRMAN. The bill was not read.
Mr. COWLES.      I stood here and listened to it.  What was read,
then ?
Mr. SPRINGER. It was read by its title, possibly.
Mr. COWLES. No, sir; the bill was read.
ir. ROGERS. I ask unanimous consent that the bill-be considered
as read.
The CHAIRMAN. The Chair will state to the gentleman from North
Carolina that the only item that has been read was the veto message
which was sent to the Clerk's desk by the gentleman. The bill has not
been read, and the gentleman confounds the veto message with the
bill.
The reading of the bill was resumed and concluded.
The Clerk read as follows:
The committee recommend to strike out "one hundred thousand" and insert
"seventy-five thousand."
Also to strike out the appropriation clause.
Mr. COWLES. Mr. Chairman, I call the attention of the House to
another fact in connection with this Bar Harbor bill, and that is that

the bill which called forth that most excellent veto message of Mr.
Cleveland, which I think will make very good reading for many of our
friends now and which I am abundantly gratified is to go into the
RECORD where it does, called for $25,000.
- Mr. MILLIKEN. Will my friend allow me to ask him a question?
Mr. COWLES. Not now. That bill, sir, went to the President, and
upon investigation of the full facts as to the necessity for this building,
he vetoed that bill calling for $25,000 and sent it back to this House
with his reasons therefor, and his veto was indorsed by the House.
Now, sir, this bill, as I understood the reading, calls for $75,000 for
the erection of a public building at Bar Harbor, three times the amount
called for by the bill vetoed by President Cleveland.
I now yield the remainder of my time to the gentleman from Illi-
nois [Mr. WILLIAMS].
Mr. WILLIAMS, of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, I do not wish to take
up the time of the committee interfering with the passage of bills of a
meritorious character; but )chile this veto message is before the com-
mittee I wish to call the attention ofthe gentleman from Maine [Mr. MIL-
LIKEN], the chairman of the committee, to the factthat hestated when
the bill was pending that it was vetoed by President Cleveland for the
reason that the amount appropriated was insufficient.
Mr. MILLIKEN. That was one of the reasons.
Mr. WILLIAMS, of Illinois. That is the way I remember his state-
ment; and he gave it without any modification.
Now, if he will read that veto he will find the reason for it was be-
cause President Cleveland did not consider it necessary to erect a pub-
lic building at that place. He thought if there should be a public
building erected there it should be done under some general law that
would give that post-office no advantage over post-offices of the same
class.
Now, Mr. Chairman, it will be seen that there are three clerks there,
and five clerks during the summer, and yet this bill calls for $75,000,
amounting to $15,000 for each clerk, for a post-office to accommodate
the people of that little town, thus making the people in districts who
have better towns pay taxes to erect this building. I say if there is
one thing that would induce me to oppose a meritorious bill advocated
by one of my colleagues on this floor it would be to see him join in
combinations to assist in putting a bill of this character through to
help out his own bill,which ought to stand upon its own merits. For
one I am opposed to passing such bills as that, and desire to give notice
now that when this bill comes up in the House I will demand the yeas
and nays upon its passage.
Mr. MILLIKEN. I desire to say in response to the gentleman from
Illinois that the amount appropriated by the bill vetoed was only
$25,000, and President Cleveland stated that "the postmaster ex-
pressed the opinion that a proper site alone would cost from $20,000
to $30,000.'
Mr. WILLIAMS of Illinois. That is a part of the veto message.
Read on further.
Mr. MILLIKEN. You read the remainder of it, and I do not dis-
pute your word.
Mr. WILLIAMS, of Illinois. Before concluding, he says it was not,
necessary.
The CHAIRMAN. The question is on the amendment, which the
Clerk will read.
The Clerk read as follows:
Amend by striking out "one hundred thousand dollars" wherever it occurs
in said bill, and insert in lieu thereof the words "seventy-five thousand dol-
lars."
The amendment was agreed to.
The Clerk read as follows:
Amend by striking out the clause making the appropriation.
The amendment was agreed to.
The bill as amended was laid aside to be reported to the House with
the recommendation that it do pass.
PUBLIC BUILDING AT SHEBOYGAN, WIS.
Mr. MILLIKEN. I call up the bill (H. R. 953) for a public build-
ing at Sheboygan, Wis.
The bill was read, as follows:
Be it enacted, etc., That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he hereby is, au-
thorized and directed to purchaseor otherwise procure a suitable site and cause
to be erected thereon, at the city of Sheboygan, in the State of Wisconsin, a
substantial and commodious public building, with-fire-proof vaults, for the use
and accommodation of the collector of customs, post-office, and for other Gov-
ernment uses. The site and building thereon, when completed upon plans and
specifications to be previously made and approved by the Secretary of the
Treasury, shall not exceed in cost the sum of $100,000; nor shall any site be pur-
chased until estimates for the erection of a building which will furnish suffi-
cient accommodations for the transaction of the public business, and which
shall not exceed in cost the balanceof the sum herein limited afterthe siteshall
have been purchased and paid for, shall have been aplproved by the Secretary
of the Treasury; and no purchase of site nor plan for said building shall be
approved by the Secretary of the Treasury involving an expenditure exceeding
the said sum of 8100,000 for site and building: Provided. That no money to be
appropriated for said buildingshall be used until avalid title to thesiteselected,
which site shall leave the building unexposed to danger from fire in adjacent
buildings by an open space of at least 50 feet, including streets and alleys, shall
be vested in the United States, nor until the State of Wisconsin shall have ceded
jurisdiction over the same for all purposes, during the time the United States
shall be or remain the owner thereof, except for the enforcement of the crimi-
nal laws of the State and the service of civil process therein.

1890.

5463



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0412.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

. The committee recommended an amendment striking out the words
"one hundred and fifty thousand" wherever they occur in the bill,
and substituting "fifty thousand dollars."
The amendment was agreed to.
The report (by Mr. CLUNIE) is as follows:
The Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds, to whom was referred the
bill (H. R. 053) for a public building at Sheboygan, Wis., submit the following
report:
Sheboygan is situated on Lake Michigan, and enjoys an extensive trade and
commerce. It is the trade center of the Fifth Congressional district, Wisconsin.
Its growth has been rapid during recent years, and its business and population
are increasing constantly. The population is estimated at between eighteen
and twenty thousand, The postal receipts are $12,581.07. Apost-office and eus-
toms office are to be provided for. The Supervising Architect recommends
$100,000, for which amount a bill has been introduced. In the line of economy
the onmmittee have amended the bill bystriking out $100,000 and inserting in
lieu thereof the sum of $50,000, and with such amendment the committee report
H. R. bill 953 and recommend that it do pass as amended.
The bill as amended was laid aside to be reported to the House with
the recommendation that it do pass.
ORDER OF BUSINESS.
ir. MILLIKEN. I move that the committee do now rise:
The question was taken; and there were-ayes 49, noes 46.
Air. ROGERS. I demand tellers.
Tellers were ordered; and the Chairman appointed Mr. ROGERS and
Mr. MILLIKEN.
The committee again divided; and the tellers reported-ayes 44, noes
42.
So the motion was agreed to.
The committee accordingly rose; and the Speaker having resumed
the chair, Mr. BuRRows, from the Committee of the Whole, reported
that they had had under consideration, under the special order of the
House, bills reported from the Committee on Public Buildings and
Grounds, and had directed him to report back to the House bills for
the erection of public buildings with sundry amendments, and with
the recommendation that they be passed as amended.
RECALL OF A BILL.
Mr. BURROWS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent for the
present consideration of the resolution which I send to the desk.
The resolution was read, as follows:
Rcsoed by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That the Presi-
dent be requested to return to the House of Representatives the bill (H. R. 7345),
authorizing and directing the Secretary of War to establish new harbor-lines in
Portage Lake, Houghton County, Michigan.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman
from Michigan?
Mr. ROGERS. Before we grant unanimous consent, I wish to ask
what is the meaningof this?
Mr. BURROWS. Simply to recall the bill.
Mr. ROGERS. What is the matter with the bill?
Mr. BURROWS. The object is to recall the bill for the purpose of
making a correction in it.
Mr. ROGERS. What sort of a correction, clerical or otherwise?
Mr. BURROWS. I do not know what the correction will be when
the bill comes back. This resolution is simply to recall the bill.
Mr. ROGERS. I should think that before we recall a bill from the
President we ought to know what the purpose is in recalling it.
Mr. BURROWS. It is a usual thing.
Mr. ROGERS. That is one of the reasons why I am inquiring about
it. These errors are getting to be so usual that I want to know what
the trouble with this bill is before I give consent to its recall.
Mr. BURROWS. I can not say what the exact trouble with it is;
but the friends of the bill desire to have it recalled. I am just advised
by my colleague [Mr. STEPHENSON] that there is a single amendment
which the Secretary of War desires to have inserted in the bill.
Mr. ROGERS. What is the amendment?
Mr. STEPHENSON. It is in regard to the waste into Portage Lake.
The SPEAKER. 'Is there objection to the present consideration of
the resolution ?
There was no objection.
The resolution was adopted.
ORDER OF BUSINESS.
Mr. OATES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent of the House
to allow my colleague [Mr. TURPIN] to prefer a request to the House,
and that he have one minute to state the reasons therefor.
Mr. TURPIN. I will state briefly that, very much to my surprise
and to the surprise of the people who seLt me here, a majority of the
Committee on Elections have decided that they can do without TURPIN
any longer, and they have named rext Tuesday as the day to put him
upon the rack. Therefore I ask unanimous consent for the considera-
tion of the bill which I send to the desk, and which, I will say, was
the third bill on the Democratic side in regular order on the Calendar.
It is a public-building bill, a meritorious case.
Several MEMBERS. Let him have it.
The SPEAKER. The Chair does not consider that a request that
has yet been submitted to the House. The Chair lays before the House
the following personal requests of members-

Mr. OATES. Mr. Speaker, the request that I made was that my
colleague [Mr. TURPIN] should have one minute to prefer a request
for unanimous consent and to state reasons therefor.
The SPEAKER. That was not submitted to the House.
Mr. DOCKERY. It is made now for submission to the House.
Mr. OATES. My colleague [Mr. TURPIN] now asks unanimous
consent that the Committee of the Whole be discharged from the fur-
ther consideration of the bill which he has indicated.
The SPEAKER. Unanimous consent was asked that the gentleman
might make a statement. That is the way the Chair understood it.
Is the Chair mistaken?
Mr. TURPIN. I myself asked unanimous consent to make a state-
ment.
Mr. OATES. I asked consent for my colleague to make a request of
the House for unanimous consent and to state the reasons therefor,
and he has made his statement and his request.
Air. WHEELER, of Alabama. The gentleman from Alabama [Mr.
TURPIN] has made a request, a very reasoiiable one, which I hope will
be granted.
The SPEAKER. The Chair understood the request to be that the
gentleman should be allowed to make a statement.
Mr. TURPIN. That was my colleague's [Mr. OATES'S] request. I
have made a request myself for unanimous consent to take up this bill.
Mr. OATES. Mr. Speaker, the request I made was that my col-
league [Mr. TURPIN] might be allowed to ask the House for unanimous
consent for the consideration of a measure and might have one minute
to state the reasons therefor; and he has had the opportunity and he
has made the statement and asked the unanimous consent of the Houso
to consider the bill which he has indicated.
Mr. WILLIAMS, of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I will have no objection to
the gentleman's request for unanimous consent provided the same
courtesy is extended to myself as Representative of the Third district
of Ohio.
Mr. WHEELER, of Alabama. You are not in the same fix.
Mr. WILLIAMS, of Ohio. I am.
A MEMBER. Why?
Mr. WILLIAMS, of Ohio. Why? Simply because my bill is on the
Calendar and has not been reached, and my constituents sent me here
to get that bill passed. [Laughter.]
Mr. WHEELER, of Alabama. You are going to stay here, but my
friend [Mr. TURPIN] is not going to stay here.
A MEMBER on the Republican side. How do you know?
Mr. WHEELER, of Alabama. Oh, I know too well. I have been
there myself. [Laughter.]
The SPEAKER. The statement of the gentleman from Ohio [Mr,
WILLIAMS] is equivalent to an objection.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
By unanimous consent, leave of absence was granted as follows:
To Mir. DALZELL, for three days, beginning Monday, June 2, on ac.
count of important business.
To Mr. PENINGTON, until Tuesday next, on account of important
business.
To Mr. CUTCHEON, for two weeks from Monday next, to attend to
official business as visitor at West Point Military Academy.
To Mr. STEWART, of Vermont, for ten days alter to-day, on account
of important business.
ORDER OF BUSINESS.
The SPEAKER. The Clerk will read the first bill reported from
the Committee of the Whole on the state of the Union.
Mr. OATES. Do I understand that the Chair declines to submit
the request of my colleague [Mr. TURPrN]?
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Ohio [Mr. WILLIAMS] has
made an obiection.
Mr. OATES. I did not so understand.
Mr. WILLIAMS, of Ohio, rose.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Ohio has made an objection.
The Clerk will proceed.
Mr. WHEELER. The gentleman from Ohio said he would not ob-
ject if he could have the same privilege.
PUBLIC BUILDING AT BAR HARBOR, ME.
The Clerk proceeded to read the bill (H. R. 415) for the erection of
a public building at Bar Harbor, in Maine.
The reading of the bill having been concluded, the amendments re-
ported from the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the
Union were read, as follows:
Amend by striking out, in lines 10 and 11, "$150,000" and inserting in lieu
thereof "675,000."
Amend by striking out section 2.
The SPEAKER (having put the question on agreeing to the amend-
ments). The ayes seem to have it.
Mr. TURPIN. Division!
The question being again taken, there were-ayes 74, noes none.
Mr. TURPIN. I raise the point of no quorum.
The SPEAKER. No quorum present?
Mr. TURPIN. No quorum present and no quorum voting.

5464

MAY 29,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0413.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

The SPEAKER (after counting the House). One hundred and six-
teen members are present-not a quorum.
Mr. BURROWS. I move that the House adjourn.
Mr. MILLIKEN. I move a call of the House.
The motion to adjourn was agreed to, there being-ayes 79, noes 44;
and accordingly (at 5 o'clock and 10 minutes p. m.) the House, in ac-
cordance with its previous resolution, adjourned until Monday next.
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS.
Under clause 2 of Rule XXIV, the following communications were
taken from the Speaker's table and referred as follows:
G. T. LARKIN.
Letter from the Secretary of the Treasury, inclosing a communication
from the Attorney-General in reference to the expenses of G. T. Larkin,
late deputy marshal eastern district of Tennessee-to the Committee
on Claims.
EXPENSES UNITED STATES COURTS.
Letter from the Secretary of the Treasury, inclosing a communication
from the Attorney-General, submitting revised estimates lor the expenses
of the United States courts for the fiscal year 1891-to the Committee
on Appropriations.
GROUNDS AROUND CUSTOM-HOUSE AT ROCKLAND, ME.
Letter from the Secretary of the Treasury, requesting an appropria-
tion of $3,000 for the improvement of the grounds around the custom-
houseoat Rockland, Me.-to the Committee on Appropriations.
EMPLOYMENT OF COUNSEL IN SUIT AGAINST STATE OF TEXAS.
Communication from the Attorney-General, requesting that provision
be made for the employment of counsel, etc., in the prosecution of a
suit in behalf of the United States against the State of Texas-to the
