1940

7423



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0470.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

highways on the main routes of our -State highway system
should be rebuilt, widened, or relocated, at an estimated cost
of more than three and a half billion dollars. These reports
showed that about 21,000 bridges on important highways
need to be widened or rebuilt, at an estimated cost of
more than $400,000,000. The official estimates of the 48
State highway departments indicated that there is need
for highway improvements aggregating a total of nearly
$4,000,000,000.
Many of the highways constructed 20 years ago have de-
teriorated. Traffic has increased; roads are too narrow;
grades are too steep; there are too many curves. The roads
must be straightened; they must be widened. Narrow roads
and bridges and crooked roads contribute to accidents. They
must be eliminated to provide for safety.
As I have indicated there must be system in the construc-
tion. Interregional  roads   are  needed. Farm-to-market
roads should fit into an integrated system. There are
31,000,000 motor vehicles today. Road improvements are
imperative. The mileage must be increased and the type of
roads improved for the benefit of the traveling public, as well
as In the interest of national defense. Many roads will have
to be rebuilt; others will have to be widened and still others
will have to be relocated.
LABOR
About 90 percent of every highway dollar goes into salaries
or wages whether the amount is expended on the job or in
the mines or factories, or along the transportation lines.
Highway improvements are not confined to limited sections.
They are widespread; they reach every State, county, city,
town, and hamlet in the Nation. Highway work takes the
job to the laborer. No other industry affords as many bene-
fits to labor as highway construction. For every $100,000,000
spent in highway improvements there is initiated a movement
which eventually involves a total business transacted of
approximately $315,000,000.
NATIONAL DEFENSE
Good roads are needed in modern welfare. Mechanical
and mechanized units in modern warfare necessitates good
highways. Methods are changing, and there are always
problems of military transportation to solve. There has
been coordination between the Public Roads Administration
and the War Department. Generally speaking, the high-
ways that serve industrial, commercial, and agricultural
demands will satisfy the military requirements.
As was pointed out recently by an Army official, there has
been progress in traveling along roads from the. oxcart at 2
miles per hour to the staff car at 70 miles per hour. There
has been progress from a division marching 20 miles per
day to a division with more than 1,300 vehicles traveling
320 miles in 14 hours. The Army is being streamlined.
Supply trains and cavalry on wheels move faster and faster.
Adequate roads are necessary to increase mobility and make
possible greater speed In war and in national defense.
FEDERAL AID
There are many reasons for Federal aid. Highways are
no longer used alone by the people of the State in which
they are located. They are used by the people of the whole
country. Federal aid for highway construction is necessary
not only for peace, but imperative in war. Federal aid is
the only way that all of the people of the country can con-
tribute to the building of the roads and highways that are
used by all of the people of the country.
TAKES
A gas tax obtains in all of the States and in the District of
Columbia. The weighted average rate Is 3.96 cents. The low-
est rate is 2 cents a gallon in the District of Columbia and 7
cents a gallon in Florida and Louisiana is the highest rate.
TOLL ROADS AND BRIDGES
Toll roads are being eliminated wherever possible. So are
toll bridges. Highways are being used. They promote
travel. The continuance of Federal aid will promote the

program to eliminate tolls not only on highways but on
bridges. There must be no tolls on Federal-aid highways
and bridges.
DIVERSION
In the Federal Highway Act of 1934 Congress undertook
to deal with the diversion of gasoline taxes. Section 12 of
that act penalized the States that diverted taxes on gasoline
from highways to other purposes. The justification for
gasoline and motor taxes is highways. When the taxes are
diverted to other purposes, the public suffers. The spon-
sors and advocates of better highways should insist that
there be no diversion of gasoline and motor taxes from
highways to other purposes.
SELF-LIQUIDATING
For the calendar year 1939 the road users of the United
States paid Federal taxes on gasoline, oils, tubes, motorcycles,
trucks, and accessories aggregating $353,350,178. Less than
half of that amount was appropriated for highway con-
struction.
SECONDARY ROADS
I was among those who urged the incorporation of pro-
visions for secondary roads in Federal highway legislation.
I would like to see the authorizations increased. I dislike
to see them reduced, but it is fair to say that large amounts
of relief and emergency funds have been utilized in the con-
struction of feeder, farm-to-market, rural, and secondary
roads. For the fiscal year 1939, $881,448,000 was expended
by the Works Progress Administration for highways, roads,
and street projects. It is estimated that for highways and
rural roads during the fiscal year 1939, $203,840,000 was
expended. It is a source of satisfaction to me that during
the past 7 years more money has been spent for highway,
road, and street construction by the Federal Government
than in all- of the previous history of the United States.
RIGHTS-OF-WAY
There are Immaterial amendments with respect to the
distribution of funds for forest roads, and there is an amend-
ment which I think is unwise that authorizes not to exceed
5 percent of the Federal-aid funds to be used for the pur-
chase of strips of land to preserve natural beauty. I am
for beautifying the highways. I believe the States where
the beautifying is done should contribute to such beautifi-
cation. Federal-aid funds should be devoted to needed con-
struction.
There is an amendment that the Commissioner of Public
Roads will furnish aid in the development of flight strips
in the aid of safety for aircraft when not in conflict with
the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938.
The important amendment in the pending bill is section
12, which authorizes the Reconstruction Finance Corpora-
tion to make loans to States to finance or aid in financing
the acquisition of rights-of-way. This should be of benefit
to cities and municipalities where through highways are to
be constructed. This provision was prepared under the
supervision of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. It
really strengthens the security of the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation in making such loans, and at the same time
will aid the jurisdictions where funds are needed to acquire
rights-of-way.
I might say in this connection that as originally intro-
duced the Federal-aid highway bill embraced the provisions
of the lending and spending bill of 1939, with no limitation
as to the amounts that might be borrowed for rights-of-
way and for the purchase of adjoining lands. The com-
mittee felt that section 12, authorizing loans for the pur-
chase of rights-of-way, was as far as the committee was
warranted in going at the present time.
The passage of the pending bill is imperative, if Federal
aid for highway construction is to be continued. I know of
no more satisfactory provision for public works in all of the
48 States of the Union than the continuance of Federal-aid
highway authorizations and appropriations. [Applause.]
[Here the gavel fell.]

7424

JUNE 3



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0471.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Mr. Speaker, I yield'such time as he
may desire to the gentleman from Oklahoma [Mr. JOHNSON].
BETTER ROADS MEAN BETTER NATIONAL DEFENSE
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma. Mr. Speaker, I am glad to
join several other Members of this House in urging the pas-
sage of the pending bill providing for the authorization of
appropriations for the entire Federal-road program for the
fiscal years of 1942 and 1943.
I agree with the able gentleman from Mississippi, who has
just preceded me, that the building of a system of highways
throughout the country constitutes real, practical national
defense. [Applause.]
In the years of 1935 and 1937, between sessions of Congress,
I had the honor and privilege of attending important peace
conference in Paris and Geneva, as one of the representatives
of the Congress of the United States. During that trip I
spent several days in Germany, at which time I went from one
end of that country to the other. I was in Berlin during the
famous love feast of Adolf Hitler and Mussolini. One of the
many things that impressed me about Germany was the fact
that they were building great air-line highways, most of
which radiated from their capital city of Berlin. One of
those highways went toward the wheatfields of Russia, an-
other toward Czechoslovakia. Others toward Belgium, Hol-
land, and Alsace-Lorraine. No one knows better than Ger-
many that the ability to move troops, materials, ammunition,
and supplies quickly and directly over the highways is an
important cog in any national-defense program.
Those of us who were in France during the late World War
have not forgotten that one of the most serious handicaps to
the Allies in that terrible death struggle was the lack of
straight and properly constructed highways and bridges in
France.
In our own defense program which we are now undertaking
on land, water, and in the air, and which we should have, of
course, begun more seriously many years ago, we must not
overlook the construction of a real system of highways
throughout the length and breadth of this land. It is also
important, as is contemplated at least in part by the pending
bill, to construct many additional feeder-roads, improve our
rural mail routes and farm-to-market roads.
Mr. Speaker, my main reason for speaking for a few mo-
ments at this late hour is not to discuss primarily the pending
bill or the need for highways in this country. Our people
are finally becoming conscious of the necessity for improving
and building more and better roads and highways. The fact
that there appears to be little or no opposition to the pending
measure is sufficient evidence that at last the country is sold
on the necessity for a real highway system throughout the
Nation.
PRAISES CHAIRMAN
My purpose for asking the indulgence of Members of the
House at this late hour is to offer my sincere congratulations
to my colleague, the gentleman from Oklahoma [Mr. CART-
WRIGHT], chairman of the Roads Committee, as well as the
members of his committee, upon bringing this-another im-
portant road bill-to the floor of the House during this
session. Especially is the chairman of this committee entitled
to great credit, not only in the preparation of the pending
measure, but in the splendid skillful manner, in which he
has presented the bill and handled it during this rather ex-
tensive debate. [Applause.]
I have known the chairman of the Roads Committee for
the past quarter of a century. He and I came to Congress
the same year. I have watched him grow and develop during
his seven terms in Congress, until he is today recognized as
the greatest authority in America on the subject of highways
and highway legislation. [Applause.]
May I say that it is not a mere accident, but because of
long hours of study, work, and perseverance that he has
reached a place of power and influence in the Congress,
especially in the matter of road legislation. Since the day
that the gentleman from Oklahoma, WILBURN CARTWRIGHT,
became a member of the Roads Committee, back in the spring

of 1927, he has been diligently seeking first-hand information
about American highways, and the great distressing need for
more, better, and safer highways of the Nation.
When my colleague from Oklahoma became chairman of
the Roads Committee in 1934 he was therefore well equipped
by study, work, and first-hand information for the stupen-
dous task before him.
The gentleman from Oklahoma, Chairman CARTWRIGHT,
has visited practically every section of the United States, at-
tending road meetings, delivering addresses, and contributing
much toward making Americans road conscious.
It is largely due to his leadership, energy, and foresight
that greater progress has been made in the United States
in building good roads under this administration than in any
similar period by any nation in all history. [Applause.]
Legislation which bears his name, and of which he has
been the author and sponsor, has made available more than
$2,000,000,000 for building better, broader, and safer roads.
It is now reasonably certain that this bill which he has
presented to us today, after careful preparation, and with
the unanimous support of his committee, will be passed
within the next few minutes without a dissenting vote. It
will authorize an additional $357,000,000 for more improve-
ments to the Nation's highway facilities.
Recently I obtained a report of Federal road expenditures
for the 7 fiscal years, 1933 to 1939, inclusive, and I should
like to give other Members of the House these impressive
totals:
Public Roads Administration ------------------  $1,767,415,519
Forest Service ----------------------------------36,398, 079
National Park Service ----------------------------  56,981,457
Indian Service ----------------------------------  19,977,747
Public Works Administration ---------------------  220,844, 886
Work Projects Administration ------------------  2,921,180, 000
Mr. JOHNSON of Oklahoma asked and was given permis-
sion to revise and extend his remarks.
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he
may desire to the gentleman from Michigan [Mr. RABAUT].
Mr. RABAUT. Mr. Speaker, there is a great necessity for
the continuation of Federal aid for highways. And, coming
as I do from Michigan, the home of automobile transporta-
tion, I intend to support my colleague the gentleman from
Oklahoma [Mr. CARTWRIGIT] and his committee.
SECTION 12 AN ADVANTAGE
Loans for right-of-way acquisitions as contained in sec-
tion 12 of the bill provide that the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation may cooperate with States to finance or to aid
in financing the acquisition of real estate deemed necessary
for road projects. This section of the bill is of vital im-
portance to the city of Detroit and will prove of tremendous
assistance to many municipalities. Rightfully it has been
said concerning the road program, "We have been able to
take people to the country, but with bottleneck conditions in
the cities it is becoming more difficult to get them out of
town."
Mr. Speaker, the distinguished State highway commissioner
of Michigan, also the president of the American Road Build-
ers' Association, Mr. Murray D. Van Wagoner, addressed the
committee and dealt most intimately with the subject under
discussion. Because of his thorough knowledge of the high-
way problem, I include herewith his timely statement made
before the Committee on Roads and recorded in the hearings.
STATEMENT OF MURRAY D. VAN WAGONER, STATE HIGHWAY COMMIS-
SIONER OF MICHIGAN, AND PRESIDENT AMERICAN ROAD BUILDERS'
ASSOCIATION, LANSING, MICH.
Mr. VAN WAGONER. Mr. Chairman and members of the Roads
Committee.
The CHAIRMAN. Mr. Van Wagoner.
Mr. VAN WAGONER. In order to save time, and I know time is
essential to this committee, I have tried to put the many phases
of what I have to say in printed form and if you will bear with me
I will read this as quickly as possible and get those points over to
you.
In the first place we deeply appreciate the courtesy of your com-
mittee in granting us time to testify concerning the bill under
your consideration.
I am speaking as State highway commissioner of Michigan, and
as president of the American Road Builders' Association.

1940



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0472.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

It is my understanding that representatives of other States, of
counties, of cities, and of organizations interested in an adequate,
efficient highway system will testify here.
I believe this committee Is thoroughly convinced of the need for
an adequate Federal-aid program for the continued improvement
and expansion of Federal-aid routes. You will find highway
administrators everywhere convinced generous Federal aid to our
highway system is an economic investment close to the general
welfare of our people.
I strongly urge the continuance of the present Federal-aid pro-
gram financed by the authorization of at least such amounts as
were appropriated for the 1938 and 1939 fiscal years.
Mr. Henry F. Cabell, chairman of the Highway Commission of
Oregon, and president of the American Association of State High-
way Officials, has given you a most convincing picture of our
needs in that respect.
Results of the highway planning surveys are becoming avail-
able in many States. These surveys are the basis for long-term
planning. Only a continued system of financing, such as that
offered under the Federal-aid program, will fit into this new con-
ception of highway building for the future. This planned build-
ing, with the plans based on scientific determination of needs,
is the greatest advance in highway building since the advent
of the concrete road. It demands planned financing.
We need also the advance in our road building and financing
program embodied in the proposal for Federal aid to finance the
purchase of rights-of-way by local communities and States.
For decades we have seen emphasis placed on rural construc-
tion. In a few short years, we have built up a great national
highway system. The expansion in improved mileage is almost
unbelievable.
Today those identified with highway development are faced not
with taking the motorist out of the mud but of lifting him out of
the traffic congestion which is blanketing the arterial highways of
our great metropolitan areas. This congestion is threatening not
only a system of rapid passenger-car movement, but it is threaten-
Ing our industrial expansion.
One of the basic difficulties involved in the solution of this
pressing and urgent problem of urban traffic congestion is the
relatively high cost of needed rights-of-way. Like many other
social and economic problems which have taken on national pro-
portions, this problem also will need, if it is to be solved, Federal
assistance.
I have made some study of the national situation. I am most
familiar with the Michigan problem, so I will confine myself to
my own State-a typically industrial State.
Michigan is the automotive empire of our country. Detroit
is the capital of that empire. You will recall that a recent Com-
merce Department report said the automotive industry was lead-
ing the way to recovery. I believe it is, but it is carrying the
"Old man of the sea" on its back; the burden of inadequate traffic
facilities in the city of Detroit which hampers even the movement
of raw materials to and of finished products from, the industrial
plants.
Let me recite for you a few facts gathered in a recent study.
They are given for the benefit of those who mistakenly say the
State and the municipality should finance themselves toward a
modernized traffic system.
Michigan has approximately 9,000 miles of trunk-line highways.
For the improvement and extension of this system it has, inclusive
of State and Federal funds, about $8,000,000 a year for actual
construction.
During the current administration of the highway department,
the widening of a bottleneck an Woodward Avenue, just 29j( miles
long, was undertaken. Construction on that job cost us $1,537,000.
But right-of-way cost us $12,479,000, The courts determined that
the price was fair.
If we had applied all available State construction money for 1
year to the completion of that job, we still would have been more
than $6,000,000 short.
That should show you how slow is going to be the process of
lifting the blanket of dangerous congestion from our metropolitan
areas if we cannot borrow money, if we cannot establish Federal
credit.
Our engineers, in preparing the material for these hearings, inves-
tigated cost sheets on nine separate metropolitan projects. They
learned actual physical construction on those projects, mostly street
widenings, averaged $232,600 a mile, but right-of-way on which to
lay these improvements averaged $1,142,000 a mile.
The 9 projects totaled 27.6 miles. The total cost of physical
construction was $6,433,000. The cost of right-of-way-and these
were already existing streets--was $31,586,000.
Michigan has sufficient motor vehicles to carry at one time every
man, woman, and child in the State. More than 70 percent of our
entire population rides in a motor vehicle once each day.
Our highway-planning survey, in an exhaustive report, said our
traffic will double by 1960. It has estimated that to care for the
traffic of 1965 a total of $850,000,000 should be spent in the next
25 years on the State trunk-line system.
One of the factors which has contributed most heavily to the cost
of right-of-way in the Detroit area has been piecemeal buying. W(
had to dicker for each foot, for each lot, with no promise of
completed program.
We have under way in Detroit today a study of a proposed cross-
town highway route, 13!/2 miles long, the physical structure to bE

of the limited access, depressed, or elevated type. The engineer in
charge of the study-and he is here today-has estimated we could
purchase the needed right-of-way for $11,500,000. But he estimates
the cost may be several times that in a few years from now.
That estimate is based on the supposition that money could be
made available for the purchhse of the entire strip at one stroke-a
supposition that is an empty one unless we can establish Federal
credit.
Compare that figure to the $12,000,000 spent for 290 miles of
right-of-way on Woodward Avenue.
In Michigan we have a pressing need for two limited access,
express motorways, one reaching from Detroit toward Toledo and
the second from Detroit toward Chicago.
The raw materials for heavy industry, the finished products of
Detroit factories, move over these roads. The traffic band from
Detroit to Toledo is, I believe, the second heaviest of any route
east of the Mississippi River.
Let us look at the increase in traffic here. From 1930 to 1936
tractor-trailer traffic increased 304 percent: truck and bus traffic
increased 11 percent; passenger-car traffic, 25 percent; and all traffic,
38 percent.
On the Chicago to Detroit route, passenger-car traffic increased
21 percent In the same period, 1930 through 1936; truck and bus
traffic, 14 percent; tractors and trucks with trailers, 570 percent;
and all traffic, 31 percent.
This traffic was reflected In the death and injury reports. It
was reflected in smashed property, delayed traffic and in direct
loss to industry. Yet, such traffic must continue to travel just
such highways for years to come unless we can perform a major
operation on these two trunk lines.
The time for first-aid treatment is past. Temporary measures
will only lose us money.
From Chicago to Detroit is 287 miles. We must have new right-
of-way and-widened right-of-way if we are to perform the major
operation necessary. With State resources what they are, I cannot
visualize purchase of the needed land for years to come.- Mean-
while its value is skyrocketing through developing.
From Detroit to Toledo Is 57 miles, The route lies through a
highly developed region. Land costs are high there. I see no
immediate possibility for acquisition of the right-of-way we need
by purchase through the usual channels.
Yet there are two obstructions in the easy flow of traffic which
impede the orderly progress of our commercial life. I question
whether the Federal Government will consider it good business to
permit such conditions to prevail.
I am a firm believer in the Government's investment in the
welfare of its people, at least in such instances where these in-
vestments will be paid back over a period of years.
Right-of-way costs are not decreasing. Once purchased the
right-of-way cannot be carried off. It serves as solid collateral for
an investment at the same time it serves national enterprise.
I am now going to submit to the committee evidence of the need
of our State for additional Federal assistance as is proposed in
title II of the bill under consideration,
It is my understanding that able testimony already has been
submitted in support of title II of the bill under consideration.
As president of the American Road Builders' Association, I
heartily endorse the testimony on the necessity for continuance
of an unrestricted Federal highway program as submitted by Mr.
Henry F. Cabell, chairman of the Highway Commission of Oregon,
and president of the American Association of State Highway
Officials.
The system of Federal aid to States established by Congress and
administered by the Public Roads Administration is the founda-
tion of Federal and State financial participation in an economic
structure vital to the social progress of our country. Any limita-
tion imposed on Federal participation in expansion of our inte-
grated highway system is a direct constriction of the articles of
our Nation's commerce.
Members of the House Roads Committee and the Senate Com-
mittee on Post Offices and Post Roads necessarily are the best
informed Members of Congress on the problems of our national
road system. Most of them, I believe, are in agreement that we
are not overspending under the provisions of title I.
As in all other lines of construction, road builders constantly
are faced with the necessity for repair and expansion. Roads, even
concrete ones, wear out. It is their peculiar nature to wear out
more swiftly where they are most needed because that is where
they are most used. Road building is not a static thing. As we
build and improve new routes, we constantly must be repairing
and replacing established routes. Road building and improvement
programs, in their very nature, must be continuing programs,
increasing in scope as traffic and commerce increases.
The problem   of raising money for right-of-way, dealt with in
title II of this bill, has, we might say, suddenly come upon us
as one of the most perplexing problems of the road-building
industry.
It was not of particular import when we were building to get
back-country motorists out of the mud. It flashed upon the con-
sciousness of the American public when in recent years we turned
to the problem of getting tremendous traffic flow through the gate-
ways of our modern cities and distributing it to its orderly des-
tinations. Since the first automobiles made their appearance we
have concentrated on building continuous through highways in
our country. The bulk of our construction was rural construc-

7426

JUNE 3



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0473.txt

1940                                  CONGRESSIONAL
tion and interurban construction. In the early days right-of-way
was contributed or bought cheaply.
In those days we boasted of our miles of roadway without clear
realization that cheaply built roads would wear out; that narrow
and dangerous highways must be widened and replaced; that cars
approximating speeds of 100 miles an hour would be built and
that there would be no place to utilize their speed.
It was a great day when we could boast of driving to Florida
or to Washington or St. Louis without leaving a concrete surface.
We had no conception then of the gigantic enterprise we were
undertaking. That was an era of overcoming natural physical
hazards. We built bridges and cut into the mountain sides.
Right-of-way cost little for those enterprises.
Now we are beginning to realize our task is only half started.
Try and visualize a metropolitan area as the hub of a system of
outspreading trunk lines. These trunk lines are like great funnels
spread with their tips toward the center of the city. Into these
funnels the outlying origins of traffic pour their traffic volumes.
The funnels constrict at the approaches to the cities. Their
capacity for passage is made less. The traffic pressures become
greater. Vehicles are crowded wheel to wheel and hub to hub.
The sides of the constructions in these funnels can be visualized
as costly property, property needed to relieve pressure on traffic
streams.
As the funnels reach more deeply into the congested traffic areas
surrounding cities, they suddenly release their burdens. Constricted
traffic streams, with no direct passage available, break against a
network of old-fashioned unplanned city streets. There is a terrific
back pressure as these inadequate thoroughfares, wandering aim-
lessly from a lack of planning, attempt to take up the burden of
modern traffic flow.
Vehicles cannot proceed directly to their destination. They must
wind and flow, intersecting with other traffic streams, twisting their
way by devious routes and through unnecessary dangers before
reaching their destinations.
There you have a picture of what has occurred in the urban areas
while we have been developing trunk-line mileage in rural areas.
A through traveler enters one of these figurative funnels, passes
the city limits, and then must filter his way across the heavily popu-
lated area on winding streets before he can reach the tip of a funnel
on the opposite side of the city which will carry him approximately
in the direction he Is traveling.
The driver of a tractor-trailer must jump off into this maelstrom
of traffic and wind his way through narrow and dangerous side
streets, maneuvering tons of commercial cargo around short corners
for miles, before he can deliver his consignment of raw materials
at an industrial plant,
Huge drive-away trucks, loaded with the finished products of
factories, lose hours, and often new orders, filtering their way across
cities to reach trunk-line routes to their destinations. They repeat
the process at each industrial and residential center.
The factory and office commuter, living miles from his job in the
industrial center, must start for work before daylight and reach his
home again after nightfall because of these bottlenecks in our cities.
This same commuter is the backbone of our country, striving to own
his own home in a community where he can meet taxes and have
independence for himself and his family.
And I believe we are safe In saying that the major reason for this
constriction of traffic, this delay, these traffic dangers, is lack of
facilities for widening and through-city construction. The tremen-
dous cost of right-of-way through the obstacles that stand in the
way of improving our city traffic arteries has paralyzed local govern-
mental action by mere contemplation.
The automotive industry is an impatient giant. It was born
approximately 40 years ago. By 1930 it was contributing 10,000,-
000,000 vehicle-miles of travel to our State and local 4loads. That
figure is for Michigan alone.
Transportation systems are the blood streams of the automotive
industry. If we restrict them, we stifle the industry and make it
ill. Economic troubles follow.
I cab best speak with authority of Michigan's problem. Our State
is the center of the automobile industry and Detroit is its metropo-
lis. We can match our highway system with that of any other
State-provided'we eliminate those urban areas where the stupend-
ous potential cost of right-of-way has limited our activities.
We have a trunk-line system of 9,000 miles. Of that, only 3,000
miles remains to be hard-surfaced. For many miles of our recent
construction, we have 400-foot right-of-way in rural areas. We have
incorporated curves that can be driven safely at 80 or more miles
an hour. We have provided new alinements with long-sight dis-
tances. We have cut the hills to fill the hollows and gone through
instead of over or around physical obstacles. Our people are en-
thusiastic pluggers for good roads which bring an estimated $400,-
000,000 tourist business to our State each year.
This year we anticipate a motor-vehicle registration of 1,500,000
vehicles. We could, if proper arrangements were made, load0 the
entire population of our State into these vehicles. Our highway
planning survey reported more than 70 percent of Michigan's pop-
ulation is in and out of a motor vehicle once each day.
Cars have become necessary economic units of our workers as
well as pleasure vehicles. Thousands of our workers live in rural
communities to maintain their independence and drive 20 to 50
miles to their work in industrial areas. No matter how modern
the goal when we attempted to plan our present highway system, we
have outgrown it.

RECORD-HOUSE                                                     7427
The present system practically was replaced in the last few years.
Our planning survey, financed by the State and the Public Roads
Administration, has taken this inventory of our road system into
the laboratory for miscroscopic examination.         These laboratory
workers have come out of their years of study with some astounding
facts.
I refer you to a table of present and future needs of our highway
system prepared by this highly valuable division of our department,
and request it be made a part of the record in this hearing.
The CHAIRMAN. Without objection, it will be made part of the
record.
The table referred to by Mr. Van Wagoner is as follows:
TABLE 1.-State of Michigan State Highway Department, present
and future needs
[State trunk-line widening to divided roadways of 4 or more lanes]
Item                        Length in  Estimated
miles      costI
Present need for widening:
Rural State trunk lines ---------------------------  - -472 $63, 712,000
Urban State trunk lines ------------------------------  134  30,671,000
Total -----------------------------------------------  606  9,383,000
Future need for widening:
Rural State trunk lines -------------------------------  1,028  121,786,000
Urban State trunk lines ------------------------------  298  59,537,000
Total ------------------------------------------------  1,326  181,323,000
Present and future widening needs: 2
Rural State trunk lines  ----------------------------  1,500  185, 498, 000
Urban State trunk lines ----------------------------  432  90,208,000
Total -----------------------------------------------  1,932 275, 706, 000
When the estimated cost of widening is added to these costs
the total estimated cost of higher capacity and new type
facilities amounts to ------------------------------------- ----------- 453,426,000
To this should be added the estimated cost of constructing
2-lane pavement on Present gravel-surface routes, on
routes at present surfaced with old or inadequate 2-lane
pavement, and on new or relocated routes ---------------  7,618 400,000,600
Total, estimated present and future needs ...........  10,121  853,426,000
I Includes cost of planning, engineering, and right-of-way.
I These estimates do not take into account the need for additional belt lines around
cities or limited-access express ways in rural and urban areas. The accompanying
estimate might be used:
Item                        Length in  Estimated
miles      cost
Additional belt lines--4 to 6 lanes ------------------------- 211  $56, 070,000
Limited-access express ways ------------------------------  32-0 120,750,000
Total    ---------------.---------------------      71  177,720,000
Mr. VAN WAGONER. This proposal to aid local governmental units
in purchase of right-of-way for highway construction applies
directly to three typical problems faced by industrial States.
The first is to provide swift and safe transportation across our
industrial cities for purely city-traffic movements. This movement
is of both commercial and pleasure vehicles, and much of its
bulk is made up of workers going to or coming from their jobs.
The second problem is to permit unrestricted, high-speed flow
on limited-access highways between industrial centers such as
Detroit and Chicago and Detroit and Toledo. Here is a constant flow
of raw materials and finished products, of food and the necessities
of life, of travel units operating on schedules, and of pleasure
drivers.
The third is to get our visiting tourists through the industrial
centers which straddle our trunk lines and delay swift arrival at
the recreation areas to the north. A large portion of our State relies
on tourist business for a livelihood.
These three problems require the acquisition of new and wider
right-of-way. In the first instance, we must acquire that right-of-
way; we must acquire that right-of-way at tremendous cost in
highly developed industrial centers.
In the second, we must acquire right-of-way, and in some in-
stances control additional right-of-way through southern Michigan
territory which lies in the most valuable districts of the State.
In the third, we must acquire right-of-way, either through indus-
trial centers or around them where developments are proceeding
rapidly and real-estate prices pyramiding.
The three phases of construction in which right-of-way costs are
most closely involved are belt line, urban, and interurban. Discus-
sion of these costs will be limited to actual figures taken from past
experience and surveys completed or nearly completed on a cross-
town project for Detroit. We can speak only in general terms when
we refer to proposed limited-access highways linking Detroit and
Chicago and Detroit and Toledo.
The State Highway Department of Michigan has put its super-
highway problem study in the hands of a competent engineer. He
has divided it, at our suggestion, into three phases:



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0474.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

Project I, a study of the feasibility and cost of a Detroit cross-
town motorway, from 13/2 to 19 miles in length, crossing the city
and providing inlets and outlets to three centralized industrial areas
now isolated by inadequate transportation facilities.
Project II, a study of a proposal for a limited-access express
highway from Detroit toward Toledo, a route showing the second
heaviest traffic band east of the Mississippi River.
Project III, a study of a similar project from Detroit toward
Chicago.
Previous experience warned us that right-of-way costs for such
projects would be tremendous for highways of adequate width in
the metropolitan area. Our State highway department not so
long ago assigned Itself the task of widening U S 10, Woodward
Avenue, for 2.6 miles in the downtown district of Detroit.
Actual physical construction on that 2.6 miles cost us $1,537,-
026.91. Right-of-way cost us $12,479,782.86.
The State highway department, inclusive of Federal-aid and
State money, has only about $8,000,000 a year for construction on
our 9,000-mile system. Had we applied this entire amount for
1 year to the 2.6 miles we would have been between six and seven
million short of paying for it.
Our engineering division recently computed right-of-way costs on
nine major metropolitan projects. Construction costs averaged
$232,619 a mile for 27 miles. Right-of-way averaged $1,142,114.
But a survey of the cross-town route, based on valuation figures
and on the assumption that we could go in and buy the property
in entirety for the development, surprised us. Our engineer re-
ported, after a check of 2,779 individual parcels and conversations
with valuation authorities, that the necessary property and build-
ings possibly could be bought for $11,549,700, if we confined our-
selves to 13    miles. Those purchases were predicated on a 250-
foot right-of-way.
It would be the height of presumption to believe the highway
department ever could step in and buy that property at one swoop.
We need the aid of long-term loans from the Federal Government
if we are to build that cross-town route on an economical, mass-
purchase basis. It is interesting to compare the figure quoted for
the 13 -mile stretch required for the cross-town highway with
the amount paid for 2.6 miles of right-of-way on Woodward
Avenue.
To illustrate the part that actual construction costs play in the
building of modern thoroughfares in comparison to right-of-way
costs, the following table is submitted.
The CHAmmAN. Without objection it will be made a part of the
record.
The table referred to by Mr. Van Wagoner is as follows:
TABLE 2.-Summary of comparative right-of-way and physical con-
struction costs of 9 metropolitan projfects
Miles   Construe-    Right-of-    Total cost
tion         way
U S 131, Grand Rapids ------- 1.012  $126,036. 04  $467,202. 47  $593, 238. 51
(Wealthy to Hall.)
U S 131, Grand Rapids --------.817  125, 209.12  3K 393. 48    461,602.60
(Michigan to Coldbrook.)
U 625, Mount Clemens- .       234    76,071.83   328,871.32    404,943.15
(Cass to Market.)
8 Mile Road, Detroit area-.-- 4. 995  478, 109. 45  2, 553, 736. 42  3, 031, 935.87
(Greenfield to John R.)
8 Mile Road, Detroit area --- . 9984  416, 210. 00  1,687, 623. 14  2,103,833. 14
(John R to Gratiot.)
8 Mile Road, Detroit area ----  6.102  528, 903. 20  1,163, 740.16  1,692,643. 36
(Gratiot to Jefferson.)
U S 10, Detroit ------------- 2. 636  1, 937,026.91 12,479,782.86 14,016,809. 77
(West Grand Boulevard
to Witherell.)
U S 25, Detroit ------------- 4.824  1,590,855.31  9,249. 488. 92  10,840,344.23
(Randolph to Harper.)
U 6 112, Detroit ------------ 3.052  1,554,815.74  3,319, 457.04  4,874,272. 78
(Livemnois to Sixth.)
Total ---------------- 27.656  6,433, 327. 60  31,586,295.81  38,019,623. 41
Average construction cost per mile for 9 typical metropolitan projects --  $232,619
Average right-of-way cost per mile for 9 typical metropoltan projects ---- 1,142,114
Average total cost per mile for 9 typical metropolitan projects ------ 1, 374, 733
Mr. VAN WaGONER. We believe a right-of-way of 250 feet will be
required for the Detroit cross-town project. The 13V-mile pro-
posed route crosses the city in an approximately east-and-west
direction and cuts through many different types of developments.
On the west it crosses a more recently developed residential
section of industrial workers. The central portion crosses an old
and blighted residential area of Detroit which has been changing
in character from a residential to a strictly commercial and indus-
trial area. A portion of the eastern end of the proposed motor-
way crosses a new residential development of good character, in
portions of which there is considerable vacant property available
at the present time.
Because the proposed motorway crosses the entire city, it touches
practically every type of development that a large industrial center
presents. This wide variety of development Is reflected in the
spread of unit land-cost figures, which we find to be as low as 12
cents a square foot and as high as $4.50 a square foot.
Our original survey leads us to believe that of the 2,779 parcels
of property needed, most of them would be acquired only by con-
demnation. Approximately 1,983 of these parcels, or 71  percent,

carry a building development of some nature. In other words,
only 28  percent of the property needed is vacant.
A portion of the proposed right-of-way located between Connors
Avenue on the west and Morang Drive on the east presents a much
more favorable ratio of vacant to built-up properties.
Within this portion there are approximately 970 parcels of
property of which 374 are improved with buildings, representing
88  percent of the total. The balance of the properties Is vacant,
and steps should be taken in the Immediate future to acquire this
available right-of-way within the city before it is completely
developed and valuations raised accordingly.
Detroit experienced a rapid growth during the last quarter cen-
tury. It was in keeping with the development of the automobile
industry-an    industry recently credited by the Department of
Commerce with leading the way to recovery.
This rapid growth brought with it the immediate need for such
basic municipal services as water lines, sewer lines, paving, and
other necessities. In order to furnish these services within a
short time, it was necessary to resort to the floating of bond issues.
When the economic structure collapsed 10 years ago, it lowered
very drastically realty values and changed altogether the ratio of
assessed valuations to bonded indebtedness.
The city of Detroit finds itself bonded beyond its permissible
legal limit. The possibility of pledging the faith and credit of the
community for additional bond issues to acquire right-of-way for
needed highway improvements within the city limits is entirely
out of the question.
The development of low-cost housing projects in Detroit would
be impossible without Federal assistance. The same is true of the
Immediate start of the cross-town highway project.
This problem of caring for the swiftly increasing flow of traffic is
not confined to our greatest city. It involves every municipality
sitting astride of a State trunk line. The traffic system  of these
cities must be either modernized now or at much greater expense
in the years to come.
Wherever possible, we must avoid the situation which befell
Detroit. We must avoid clogged highways and distressed traffic
conditions.
It is advisable, wherever possible, to route a large portion of
through traffic around cities by construction of wide belt lines
which will carry automobiles swiftly and safely. We must provide
feeder roads from   cities to limited access, express superhighways
which span States and regions and which may span our country
with the swift increase of motor traffic.
It has been proposed that such roads of limited access be built
between Detroit and Toledo and Detroit and Chicago. Chicago
already has planned an entrance for such a highway from Detroit.
The Detroit end of the express way would reach to the proposed
cross-town highway. We consider that, in fact, step No. 1 in the
construction of either of the two routes.
Traffic on both of these arterial highways is of a mixed nature.
The swift pleasure cars are speeding by the trailer trucks and the
busses. There is a constant shuttling in and out of traffic. This is
reflected in our fatal-accident figures shown at the end of this
statement.
Surveys showed traffic on the Detroit to Toledo route, most of
which is over Telegraph Road, increased 38 percent between 1930
and 1936. Traffic over the Detroit-Chicago route increased 31 per-
cent in the same period. At that time average daily traffic was
8,462 cars on the Detroit-Toledo route and 7,450 cars on the Detroit-
Chicago route.
The State Highway Department has realized that alleviation of
traffic conditions on these two routes, the partial relocation of both
routes, is too great a financial problem to tackle with the present
limited resources at our disposal. A patchwork of repair sections
can be considered only temporary. Much of the Chicago route is
winding, curved right-of-way. This must be straightened, widened,
and relocated.
The distance between Detroit and Chicago is 287 miles. To
purchase an adequate right-of-way for a limited access, high-speed,
express way between these two cities, with the financial condition
of the State such as it is, is impossible. The route, if it were laid
out directly, would traverse a wealthy section of the. State. It
would split farms, cross streams, require purchasb of municipal
property, and divide estates.
Yet, if we could borrow money on long-term arrangement wilth
an agency of the Federal Government, buy right-of-way other
than in piecemeal lots, and get our construction started, I am firmly
convinced the investment would give new Impetus to our in-
dustries and soon repay the loans.
What I have said of the Detroit to Chicago route applies to the
Detroit to Toledo route. I am convinced, too, that the investment
in right-of-way along these routes, which the Government might
sponsor, would be returned in no small measure by improvement
of its so-called military road system.
A glance at a list of War Department material requirements will
emphasize the need of keeping transportation routes to our major
industrial city unclogged In time of war.
Despite every possible precaution, more than 1,500 people in
Michigan died as a result of traffic accidents last year. I believe
that appalling loss could have been greatly reduced by widened
streets and straightened, limited access highways, by the use of
some of that costly property which jams traffic together at city
gateways and overcrowds it on mixed pleasure and commercial
highways.

7428

JUNE 3



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0475.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

To support that statement, there are attached some tabulations
of accident percentages on highways where Federal assistance in
obtaining room for new construction could save the lives of our
motorists.
The CHAIRMAN. Without objection, they will be made a part of
the record.
The tables referred to by Mr. Van Wagoner are as follows:
TABLE 3.-Motor vehicle traffic in 1930 and 1936 on rural State
trunk lines that connect Detroit and Toledo, and Detroit and
Chicago

Detroit and Toledo:
Passenger cars ---------------------
Trucks and busses ...............
Tractors and trucks with trailers_-
All vehicles ....................
Detroit and Chicago:
Passenger cars -------------------
Tractors and busses --------------
Tractors and trucks with trailers.-
All vehicles --------------------

5,257      86
550       9
306       5

108
1, 235

6,113-     100      ,426      100        38
4,931       87     5.984        tO        21
624       11       709        10        14
113        2       757        10       570

5,668

7,450

I All traffic in the State increased 18 percent from 1930.
The pressure on these two important industrial trunk lines is
greater than is indicated by the percentages of traffic increase.
The growth of their traffic at a rate nearly twice that in the State
as a whole points to a still greater need for added capacity, but
the fact that the heaviest, slowest, and largest-dimensioned com-
ponents of their.traffic have increased more than three and five fold,
respectively, emphasizes the necessity for providing facilities of a
special type.
The presence of large, slow-moving commercial vehicles on a
general-use pavement means that the faster traffic units must
make more overtaking and passing maneuvers. When these con-
ditions exist on a single pavement carrying traffic moving in
opposite directions, traffic is slowed down and subjected to un-
usual hazards.  Under these circumstances divided roadways for
directional traffic are required if motor-vehicle transportation needs
are to be served efficiently and safely.
ACCIDENTS AND HIGHWAY TRAFFIC AND ADEQUACY
Traffic-accident occurrence is accepted as one of the indexes
of highway adequacy. The following tables show the distribu-
tion of accidents on different classes of roadways in Michigan
and their concentration on certain strategic trunk-line routes and
sections of routes. The figures and percentages in all cases relate
to fatal accidents, the records of which are accepted as accurate
and therefore suitable for statistical analysis.
FATAL TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS, 1934-37, INCLUSIVE
Distribution to system of occurrence in percentages of State-wide
4-year total
SYSTEM
Urban streets ------------------------------------------- 47. 86
Detroit streets -------------------------------------- 240.83
Other urban streets --------------------------------- 23.03
Rural roads  ----------------------------------------- 52.14
State trunk lines --------------------------------- 34.41
Other rural roads -------------------------------- 17.73
State total  -----------------------------------100.00
These percentages indicate that the urban-accident problem is
centered in Detroit and that most rural accidents occur on trunk-
line highways.
