the boot and shoe industry 100 machines take the place of
25,000 men. Just think of it. One man can now turn out
35,000 razor blades where in 1913 he could only make 500 in one
day. This alone means one man doing the work of 70 because
of improved machinery. It is now possible for 200 men using
the last type machinery to turn out from 7,000 to 9,000 auto-
mobile frames a day. There is a plant so equipped in one of
the Middle Western States. While not many years ago the same
force of men could turn out but 35 or 40 of the same kind of
frames. In steel blast furnaces, according to Mr. William
Green, president of the American Federation of Labor, 7 men
now do the work of 60 in casting pig iron, and since 1927 and
within the last three years improved methods in the Bessemer
process the necessary working force has been reduced by 24
per cent.
In machine shops where semiautomatic machines are used
1 man now takes the place of 25 skilled mechanics. Thirty
workers with 10 machines can do the work of 240 In the Sun
Tube Corporation machine shop, I am informed. A new ma-
chine installed by the De Forrest Radio Co. will turn out 2,000
tubes an hour with 3 operatives as against 150 tubes with the
old machine and 40 workers. Just think of the old methods of
making cigarettes and cigars and the improved machinery in
use displacing thousands and thousands of workers. These
labor-saving machines are not only found in the industries, in
the shops and factories, but in the offices, banks, theaters, and
even the homes. The movitone or sound picture has displaced
thousands of musicians, who are walking the streets to-day.
We can all visualize any large office or bank with its numerous
employees adding columns of figures, others tabulating, and
many copying records, all of which is now performed by ma-
chinery. Why, the office worker has been displaced by ma-
chinery almost to the same degree as the skilled worker in the
factory. Only recently Members of Congress have had installed
In their offices the new telephone dial, which will soon mate-
rially reduce the number of operators required for the same
number of subscribers.
The other day down in Langley Field the National Advisory
Committee on Aeronautics exhibited a machine which per-
formed the highest kind of skilled mechanical work-a machine
used in aeronautics to make what is known as an airfoil. It
must be made of metal in order to avoid fluctuation and
changes, and must be perfect in Its measurements and form.
Manufacturers could not afford to make them because of the
time and great skill required. Now a machine using a wooden
model has been devised, and it seems that the machine did
everything but think. This machine alone performs in an 8-
hour day with one mechanic hundreds of labor hours of work.
Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. LAGUARDIA. Yes.
Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. Has the gentleman thought
of the long, enormous railroad trains of 175 freight cars
hauled by electric locomotives, which cut down the crews?
Mr. LAGUARDIA. Yes; not only reducing the number of
train crews and other personnel, but also reducing the fuel
that was required, thereby displacing men in the mines. This
Is the same with use of electricity generated by. water power
or in the case of oil pumped thousands of miles in pipes--all
resulting in less men at work.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0165.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. And on top of that the pro-
posed gigantic mergers of trunk-line railroads will further cut
down employment.
Mr. BRUMM. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. LAGUARDIA. Yes.
Mr. BRUMM. Has the gentleman looked into the number
of people who are employed in making electric motors and the
people that operate them?
Mr. LAGUARDIA. The number of men employed in making
labor-saving devices is a negligible percentage of the number
of workers these same machines displace. No, that does not
offset the loss of labor by any means. The only method of
meeting mechanical changes is by a complete change in our
system of labor, hours of work, and factory conditions. I will
touch upon that in just a minute.
Mr. BRUMM. Hundreds of thousands are employed in
making them.
Mr. LAGUARDIA. True; and many in repairing and main-
taining them. As I have just stated, the number is negligible
in comparison to the number of workers displaced. We can
not and do not want to stop progress, but we must adjust our-
selves to the mechanical age and provide accordingly. We
must not ignore our responsibility, nor can we dodge it. As
mechanics improve economics must change-labor as well as
capital must receive the benefits of machinery. The time to
solve unemployment problems is when we have no unemploy-
ment, and not when we have unemployment. That is far-seeing
constructive legislation, and I say that American labor will
refuse to lower its standard of living and will refuse to fall
in line at a charitable soup kitchen. Although we have at
the present time unemployment we must not only meet the
situation but must give this question serious study in order to
provide means to avoid repeated periods of unemployment.
An economic system which carries cycles of unemployment
certainly requires some change. There is no more justification
for unemployment in this day and age than there is for epi-
demics of preventable disease. As sanitation wiped out malaria
so must constructive legislation abolish unemployment.
Mr. BOYLAN. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. LAGUARDIA. In a moment. I call the attention of the
House to the fact that we have repeatedly tried in many States
to solve this problem and that it is impossible for one State to
solve it unless, every other State comes up to the same stand-
ards. Many States have provided up-to-date factory laws, have
limited the hours of labor, have provided against the employ-
ment of children, only to find the minute they do so they are
met by unfair competition from other States that refuse to keep
abreast of the times.
Mr. WAINWRIGHT. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. LAGUARDIA. Yes.
Mr. WAINWRIGHT. I call my colleague's attention to the
fact that he may have overlooked, that 20 years ago the State
of New York through a commission considered this whole ques-
tion of unemployment and arrived at the conclusion that In
default of finding jobs, the most effective thing was through a
system of employment agencies, and they ran right up against
the problem that employment agencies in one State, without the
cooperation of the Federal Government, or the United States,
would be ineffective.
Mr. LAGUARDIA. Yes; I want to add right here, because my
colleague from New York is too modest to say so, that Colonel
WAINWRIGHtT, who was then a State senator, was the chairman
of that commission, a most exhaustive study was made of the
problem of unemployment. The commission submitted many
sound and constructive recommendations. Many of the reme-
dies then suggested have been put into effect in the State of
New York. Many other changes require uniform action in all
States. As to national employment agencies, the able New York
legislative commission of which Colonel WAINWRIGHT was chair-
man, as far back as 1911 recommended the need of just such a
plan as Congress should consider. I read from page 55, Appen-
dix No. 1, Report of Committee on Unemployment, New York
State Employers' Liability Commission, Second and Third Re-
ports and Evidence, April, 1911:
We must conclude that unemployment is a permanent feature of in-
dustrial life everywhere. It is a risk to which our wage earners are con-
stantly subjected. A reserve of labor is needed to meet the fluctuating
requirements of industry. There must be unemployed people ready to
begin work when the busy seasons come, when employers want to extend
their operations, when extra hands are needed anywhere.
Although the normal development of our industrial system makes
this unemployment necessary and inevitable, the State of New York
assumes no responsibility toward the able-bodied unemployed. No
organized attempt is made to prevent suffering and degeneration among
those who have to act as reserves in our industrial army. Only when

the unemployed have become sick, disabled, and pauperized, when they
apply for admission to a charitable institution, or when they have
become homeless and criminal and are arrested for vagrancy or breaking
the law-only then do our public authorities take any notice of them.
While foreign governments are devising and establishing agencies to
prevent unemployment as far as possible and to provide against the
degradation of those who have to be unemployed, our State is content
to allow the idleness to have its full effect. Instead of helping the
unemployed to remain or become self-supporting, our policy is to estab-
lish State and philanthropic institutions to take care of them when
they are no longer able to provide for themselves.
Now I will read an interesting extract from the same report,
which will show that as far back as 1908 the Federal Govern-
ment was actually doing what to-day we intend doing, and is
being opposed on the ground that such activity is unconstitu-
tional and an infringement of State rights. The report says:
There are two government agencies in this State, part of whose work
Is to secure places for unemployed wage earners. One is national, the
division of information of the United States Bureau of Immigration,
and the other is the bureau of information and statistics of the New
York State department of agriculture.
The Federal division opened its office in New York early in 1908.
There are branches also in Baltimore, Galveston, and Chicago. The
law which created the division states that it shall gather information
with regard to opportunities for work in all parts of the Union and
to give this information to Immigrants and to all others who may
apply. It was designed mainly as a means of distributing the immi-
grants. The work of the bureau is greatly facilitated by the franking
privilege which it enjoys. Inquiries are sent to rural post offices, with
instructions to distribute them to the farmers. These are requested to
fill out the blanks with regard to the opportunities for work in the
neighborhood. The office is thus able to use the postmasters as cor-
respondents who send in information as to the conditions in each county
throughout the country.
Unfortunately the work of free employment offices In the United
States has been hampered by politics in the management and by in-
adequate appropriations. *  *  *
Not the least of the value to be gotten out of the public employment
offices is the information they might give regarding the extent of un-
employment, the causes, and the remedies that are needed. Tie inade-
quate appropriations have prevented most of our offices from hiring
the clerical force needed to keep records. *  *  *
The experience of England with employment exchanges is
referred to in the same report. The reference made in 1911
is indeed of interest to-day.
The labor exchange act was passed by Parliament in September,
1909. It met with practically no opposition. Experience under the
unemployed workmen act showed its necessity and both the majority
and the minority of the royal commission on the poor laws had rec-
ommended a national system of labor exchanges. The first exchanges
were opened in February, 1910, so that their results could hardly be
judged at the time of our visit, which was only six months later.
The law on which the system of exchanges is based is very simple,
merely giving general powers to the board of trade to establish, take
over, and maintain labor exchanges, and to make regulations for their
management. Any regulations so made have the effect of law. Two
sets of regulations have thus far been made under the act. The first
was general, relating to registration, policy in time of strikes, advances
of transportation, advisory committees, etc. The second related particu-
larly to juvenile applicants for employment. The number of exchanges
and where they were to be located was not fixed. This, too, was left
to the board of trade.
The labor exchanges are conducted by the labor department of the
board of trade. The president of the latter is a member of the cabinet,
the director of the exchanges is a subordinate of the head of the labor
department. All the expenses are paid out of parliamentary funds.
There is a central office in London which directs the work of the
whole system of exchanges. Its work is purely that of organization
and administration. Mr. Beveridge presides over the central office, and
under him there is a general manager and a woman supervisor, whose
activities cover the whole country. The country is divided into It
divisions, each under the control of a divisional officer whose office acts
as a clearing house to arrange the transfer of workers from one part
of the country to another. The divisional officers are the responsible
heads In each division and the selection of the office force is left in
their hands. All appointments, however, must be passed on by the
director and approved by the president of the board of trade.
That Is exactly what we are seeking to do in this country.
Senate bill 3060, introduced by Senator WAGNEr, of my State,
answers the purpose fully.
Mr. CLARKE of New York. And is not the very argument
the gentleman is making carrying out in permanent form the
policy of the President of the United States when he called
the governors of the States and the industrial leaders and the

1930

10409



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0166.txt

10410                               CONGRESSIONAL]
labor leaders into a meeting to meet a condition that was tem-
porary, when it ought to be made permanent by the Government
itself; and BOB WAGNER is entitled to the highest praise for
his measures. [Applause.]
Mr. LAGUARDIA. That is why I am             supporting his bill.
As the gentleman from New York [Mr. CLAnKE] has just
pointed out, the President of the United States has pointed the
way. It is up to Congress, though, to follow up. We must take
the initiative in solving this great national problem.       First,
Congress must enact all the necessary legislation over which
the Federal Government has jurisdiction. Then we must do
everything possible to crystallize public opinion on the subject.
Third, we must provide ways and means of doing officially
everything which the President is now seeking to do with
volunteers and voluntary cooperation. Fourth, we must strive
to bring about uniform State laws dealing with labor, factory
laws, employment of children, old-age pensions, and unemploy-
ment insurance. In many of these subjects Congress has no
jurisdiction; they are purely State matters. We can and must,
through proper influence, aid and, by financial cooperation, bring
about in each of the States such laws, conditions, and changes
as to establish uniformity. The President did call in unofficial
conference the governors of the States and the industrial lead-
ers; but this matter can not be permanently solved by proc-
lamations or by good will or by desire.       Something concrete
must be brought about. The gentleman from Massachusetts
[Mr. GIrFORD] a few weeks ago pointed out to the House the
necessity of uniform labor laws controlling the hours of labor
and the number of days in a week, controlling child labor, and
urging the necessity of uniformity in these laws in every State
of the Union. Mr. James Dunn, of the New          Bedford Times,
wrote a very able editorial on the subject. Massachusetts is
indeed in a position to speak. That State has sought to enact
progressive labor legislation only to find itself penalized by
having her industries attracted to other States which refuse
to enact similar beneficial legislation.
What good does it do if one or more States seek to solve the
problem of tile machine age by reducing the hours of labor in
order to employ more workers if other States refuse to do like-
wise and attract the industries within their own borders, there-
by continuing the calamity of unemployment with its attendant
poverty, misery, and distress? The hours of labor is one of the
first matters in uniformity which niust be brought about.        I
will read Mr. Dunn's letter and my reply:
Tai NEW BEDFORD TIMES,
New Bedford, Mass., May 23, 190.
Hon. FIORELLo H. LAGUARDIA,
The Potomac Park, Washington, D. C.
DEAR CONGRESSMAN LAGUARDIA: I desire to call your attention to the
inclosed reprint of my editorial in the New Bedford Times of May 19,
"Disease and Cure."
The points brought out In that editorial ard strictly in sequence to
the principles developed in the two former letters which I sent to you
and your associates in the entire membership of both Houses of Con-
gress under dates of December Q, 1929, and January 17. 1930.
I must call to your attention as forcefully as possible that no prob-
lem considered by Congress can ever be more important than time re-
assuring of earning power to our present vast and increasing numbers
of unemployed workers.    I might add that the great majority of
measures coming before both your Houses are of far less value than
the diligent consideration and solution of this question. For in last
analysis every item  of our national advance--regained prosperity,
security, and success-imust depend on the measure in which we replace
stable earning power in the hands of our willing and capable workers,
now unemployed in increasing numbers and with steadily decreasing
expectation of being again in possession of occupations insuring their
livelihood.
I would mention that I have not only twice called this whole matter
to your attention and to that of all other Members of both Houses of the
Congress as above mentioned, but I also appeared personally before the
committee on constitutional law of the Massachusetts General Court,
February 3, 1930, urging the delivery by the general court of a memorial
to Congress supporting a constitutional amendment to enable your
Houses to legislate for equal hours in all American industry.
I would remark in closing that no effort made by any Member of
either Ilouse in the Congress will ever assume such capital importance
in the eyes of our people as a bona fide stroke at once for the righting
of the present unbalanced condition of Industry, machinery, and human
labor throughout the United States.
Equal hours in industry must be the answer.
The wise national legislator is the one who acts, and acts without
delay, on that conviction.
Very respectfully yours,
JAMES DUNN, Editor.

RECORD-HOUSE

JUNE 10
MAY 27, 1930.

THE NEW BEDFORD TIMES,
Times Building, New Bedford, Mass.
GENTLEMEN: I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of May 23,
1930. You hit the nail right on the head.
We must have uniformity of labor laws. We are now suffering from
the very condition you seek to remedy. Child labor, liability compensa-
tion, factory hours, and income tax have all been provided by pro-
gressive and enlightened States. States refusing to keep abreast of tile
times advertise that fact, attracting industries, and thereby competing
with industries which are seeking to give labor a square deal.
Rest assured I will do everything within my power to bring about
uniformity of laws or through a constitutional amendment, as you sug-
gest. I fear Congress Will not awakeu to this necessity, nor will poll-
ticians of either party until we go through a crisis of the worst kind.
Nothing can stop It unless something constructive is adopted in the
immediate future.
Very truly yours,
F. H. LAGUAiDIA.
Mr. GIFFORD. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. LEAVITT. Yes.
Mr. GIFFORD. I wish to say to the gentleman that I very
much appreciate his remarks at this time, as I once requested
of him to take up this matter, and he had already planned to
do it. I would gladly cooperate with him in the movement he is
advocating. I regret that he is not hopeful of a constitutional
amendment. England has a 48-hour law          and no night work.
Only through Federal action can this be fully brought about In
the United States.
Mr. LAGUARDIA. There are two ways this can be brought
about, either by constitutional amendment giving the Federal
Government jurisdiction-and at the present state of mind of the
American people I see no hope of getting such a constitutional
amendment--or by providing machinery and crystallizing public
opinion in every State so as to bring about the enactment of uni-
form State laws. Carrying out the way pointed out by the Presi-
dent of the United States, I am      introducing a resolution au-
thorizing the President of the United States to call a con-
ference on uniform labor laws, and to invite each State to
send two delegates to this conference. Of course,. the con-
ference could only make recommendations, but this is neces-
sarily a slow   process. A   start must be made. I provide in
my resolution-
That the President of the United States be, and he hereby is, anu-
thorized to extend an invitation to each of the several States, Porto
Rico, and the Territories of Alaska and Hawaii, to participate, In the
manner hereinbelow set forth, in a national conference for the purpose
of drafting model labor and social welfare laws, to be submitted to
the respective States for their consideration.
Sec. 2. The President of the United States is authorized to Invite
each of the several States and Territories to send two delegates to
attend said conference herein provided, at such time and place as he
may elect.
SEC. 3. Said conference shall be opened by the President of the
United States and shall then proceed to organize and elect its own
officers and formulate its own rules. Immediately thereafter it shall
proceed to the consideration of model laws to be submitted to each of
the States for their respective consideration on the subject of daily
hours of service, number of days in the working week, factory laws
and regulations, employment of children, employment agencies, un-
employment insurance, old-age pensions, and any subject It may deem
related and pertaining to labor conditions and the prevention of
unemployment.
SEC. 4. Each delegate shall receive the same mileage expense allowed
to Members of the House of Representatives and shall receive $20
expense allowance per diem.
SEC. 5. On completion of the work of the conference, which shall
not exceed 100 conference days, the findings will be submitted by such
conference to the legislatures of the respective States, Territories,
and insular possessions; thereupon the President of the United States
shall issue a proclamation announcing the termination of the said
conference and recommending to the respective States their earnest
consideration of the recommendations made by said conference.
SEC. 6. The Comptroller General of the United States shall assign
an employee to act as the disbursing officer for the said conference
and such additional employees as he may deem necessary to disburse
and keep the accounts of said conference, and the President shall
designate a clerk and such additional employees, clerical assistants,
stenographers, messengers, and pages as he may deem necessary by
assignment from any department of the Government or by special
appointment, in which case he shall fix their respective salaries.
There is hereby authorized to be appropriated, out of the Treasury
of the United States, such amount as may be necessary to defray
expenses of the said conference.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0167.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

It will be noted that the conference is official and all ex-
penses paid by the Federal Government. The governors would
surely appoint competent delegates and the recommendations
made would surely be seriously considered by the various
States. Such a conference would bring forth the best thought
on the subject in the country and I believe would be the
starting point for the changes necessary to prevent the curse
of unemployment.
Mr. KVALE. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. LAGUARDIA. In a moment. Upon the termination of
the conference, which I provide shall not exceed 100 conference
days, the President, by proclamation, would submit the findings
of the conference to each of the States for their respective
consideration.
Mr. BOYLAN. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. LAGUARDIA. Yes.
Mr. BOYLAN. Does not the gentleman think that the
Government has been remiss, as is shown by the Navy Depart-
ment laying off men in the Navy yards at Philadelphia, New
York, and Boston, at the very time when we ought to give
employment?
Mr. LAGUARDIA. I am speaking from a broader sense.
Unemployment in the navy yard is only one of the symptoms
of the evils I an speaking of. When we solve the problem we
will be able to absorb navy-yard surplus labor. It is indeed a
sad commentary if we must build battleships and go to war in
order to solve our unemployment difficulties. I do not believe
in going to war to kill off labor in order to reduce unemployment.
I am trying to prevent such antiquated, inhuman conditions,
and deal with the subject in a constructive and enlightened
way. Of course, there is unemployment in many factories, in
many industries, and there is unemployment in some of the
Government arsenals. If we have such a conference I believe
that public opinion could be so crystallized back of a program
of uniform laws as to bring the enactment of such laws into
nearly every State of the Union.
Mr. KVALE. Will the gentleman consider adding to his reso-
lution for the conference the specific charge to inquire into the
extent to which middle-aged and old men are employed?
Mr. LAGUARDIA. That would be covered under old-age pen-
sions, because we know now, in this machine age, with the sur-
plus man power that we have, a man 45 years of age has diffi-
culty in getting a job, and a man 50 years of age can not find
a job, and a man 55 years of age is left out entirely.
Mr. MOUSER. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. LAGUARDIA. Yes.
Mr. MOUSER. Is it not just as much the duty of the Gov-
ernment to make a survey as to unemployment as to make one
with respect to agriculture?
Mr. LAGUARDIA. Yes. I think the results that would fol-
low from the passage of S. 3061 and S. 3060 would give us valu-
able information. At the present time we have private and local
surveys. I think every mar in the House must know, from
the pressure and the information he receives from home, that
there is a vast amount of unemployment in every section of the
country. It is a national problem. I have heard some say that
my resolution is too novel and startling, if you please. I there-
fore hope the country will have time to consider it and realize
that it is a practical way of dealing with this subject. When
we come back in December I hope my conservative friends in
Ihe House will see the necessity of doing something concrete
now to provide the machinery and the means of avoiding un-
employment.
And, gentlemen, unemployment can be avoided. The problem
can be solved. Changes in labor conditions must be as drastic
as improvements in machines. We must soon get to a shorter
day and a shorter week. Do not tell me that industry can not
afford it. The preservation of national contentment and exist-
ence demand it. An industry that can not afford to pay labor
an adequate living wage has no right to exist, because industry
can not exist without labor. A nation must see to it that its
people are usefully and profitably employed. We can not stop
the use of machinery, but we can by legislation enact laws
which will enable American citizens and human beings to live
decently. [Applause.]
Gentlemen, surely legislators must be able to display the
genius of the age in which we are living. Can it be said that
while mechanics, electricity, chemistry are striding forward
legislation is unable to move? I refuse to concede any such
legislative atrophy. What good is progress, science, and inven-
tion if they are not to be used for the benefit of all the
people? What good is it to a country in the long run if mil-
lions of dollars of profits are made by industries if at the same
time millions of men, women, and children are starving by rea-
son of unemployment. We must, as legislators, face the situation
and as new methods of production are brought forth be ready

to improve conditions of labor. We must make a start, and
we must do so promptly. An unemployed man with hungry
children to feed and unable to do so though willing and able
to work should not and must not exist in this country. With
shorter hours, a shorter week, care for the aged, abolition of
child labor exploitation, the unemployment can be solved. We
can no longer simply deplore existing conditions and wait for
better times to come. We must do something about it. I have
here outlined the minimum program. The thing to do is to get
started. [Applause.]
Mr. LEAVITT. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield there?
Mr. LAGUARDIA. Yes.
Mr. LEAVITT. During the World War the Government
built up an employment agency, as the gentleman will recall.
Mr. LAGUARDIA. Yes. That Is the most discouraging
part of this whole problem. In war time we can concentrate
all the power of the Govermnent, all the resources of the Gov-
ernment, to prepare to efficiently and successfully kill people
and destroy property, but in peace times we are confronted
with all sorts of restrictions and limitations and constitutional
arguments when we try to keep people profitably employed and
make them healthy and happy. [Applause.]
EPPJS ENTA1VE ROBERT LUCE
The   SPEAKER. The     gentleman   from  Nebraska   [Mr.
HOWARD] is recognized for five minutes.
Mr. HOWARD. Mr. Speaker, many are the moments of hap-
piness vouchsafed me here in presence of this galaxy of
superior mentalities in the realms of erudition, oratory, and
statecraft, and the happiest of moments is when I am privileged
to discover in one of our colleagues some new evidence of his
rare and scintillating genius.
I have made one of those happy discoveries. I found it in
this morning's Washington Post, carrying report of an address
made last evening before the National Grand Old Party Club by
our colleague from Massachusetts, Mr. ROBERT LucE  In that
address the speaker lauded President Hoover to heights not
hitherto attained by any mortal, averring that the Nation's
present unexampled era of prosperity is wholly due to the wise
workings of the presidential mind.
Mr. Speaker, perhaps none within these walls has failed to
observe Ihe vast erudition of the gentleman from Massachusetts.
America does not hesitate to accord him a place near the top
of parliamentarians, living and dead. As an author, he is
voluminous; as a logician, profound; as a legislator, alert and
able. In the ranks of the spellers he had held first place above
all others for more than a half century until quite recently,
when, regardless of the plain dictates of Puritan propriety, and
in a pitiless public light, he fell down on a kimono.
And now, since the delivery of that masterful address to the
National Grand Old Party Club last night, the usually sedate
and ponderous statesman from the rim of Plymouth Rock must
be accorded a place as first among his equals in the ranks of
humorists. None had expected it, and for that reason the
knowledge of it comes refreshingly. Let me read once again
the newspaper headlines: "LucE lauds Hoover. Avers pros-
perity is due to Hoover."
While the appearing of this new and most brilliant star upon
the sky of humor is rapturously applauded by an appreciative
world, yet I hesitate to participate loudly in the applause, real-
izing, as I must, that with the rising of this brilliant humoristic
meteor from Massachusetts must quickly go down to oblivion
that trinity of lesser humoristic lights so loved by all mankind-
Will Rogers, Amos, and Andy. And so, while not entirely with-
holding my meed of applause for the living LucE, my sympathy
flees to the bedsides of those three former great ones in the
realms of humor-Will Rogers, Amos, and Andy-as suddenly
they find themselves hurled from the highest pinnacles of popu-
larity to the open door of oblivion by the coming of this master
of humor from Massachusetts. [Laughter and applause.]
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A message fromn the Senate by Mr. Craven, its principal clerk,
announced that the Senate had passed without amendment a
bill of the House of the following title:
H. R. 976. An act providing that subscription charges for
newspapers, magazines, and other periodicals for official use
may be paid for in advance.
The message also announced that the Senate had passed a bill
of the following title, in which the concurrence of the House is
requested:
S. 4046. An act authorizing the erection, maintenance, and
use of a banking house upon the United States military reserva-
tion at Fort Lewis, Wash.
The message also announced that the Senate agrees to the
amendments of the House to the bills of the following titles:
S. 3898. An act granting the consent of Congress to the Mill
Four Drainage District, in Lincoln County, Oreg., to construct,

1930

10411



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0168.txt

104-12                           CONGRESSIONAL
maintain, and operate dams and dikes to prevent the flow of
waters of Yaquina Bay and River into Nutes Slough, Boones
Slough, and sloughs connected therewith; and
S. 3950. An act authorizing the establishment of a migratory
bird refuge in the Cheyenne Bottoms, Barton County, Kans.
The message also announced that ihe Senate disagrees to the
amendments of the House to the bill (S. 3619) entitled "An act
to reorganize the Federal Power Commission," requests a con-
ference with the House on the disagreeing votes of the two
Houses thereon, and appoints Mr. CoUZENS, Mr. WATSON, and
Mr. PI TMAN to be the conferees on the part of the Senate.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE TO SUBSTITUTES, POSTAL SERVICE
The SPEAKER. The Cleric will call the Consent Calendar.
The first business on the Consent Calendar was the bill (H. R.
3087) granting leaves of absence with pay to substitutes in the
Postal Service.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to the present considera-
tion of the bill?
There was no objection.
The Clerk read the bill, as follows:
Be it enactcd, etc., That hereafter substitute post-office clerks, substi-
tute city letter carriers, and substitute railway postal clerks shall be
Included In all acts granting leaves of absence with pay to postal em-
ployees.
With the following committee amendment:
Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert in lieu thereof the
following:
" That hereafter, when substitute postal employees have worked a
total of 1,224 hours, they shall be entitled throughout their period of
substitution in each fiscal year to leave with pay at the rate of one
and one-quarter days for each 204 hours' service rendered; and sick
leave with pay at the rate of five days for each 1,224 hours' service to
be cumulative throughout period of substitution and continued, if not
used, to the credit of the substitute after his appointment to the
regular force."
The committee amendment was agreed to.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time,
was read the third time, and passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
SHORTER WORK DAY ON SArLRDAY FOR POSTAL EMPLOYEES
The next business on the Consent Calendar was the bill (H.
R. 6603) to provide a shorter work day on Saturday for postal
employees, and for other purposcs.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to the present considera-
tion of the bill?
Mr.   CRAMTON,      Mr.  HOC,    Mr. BELL,     and   Mr.
McCLINTIC of Oklahoma objected.
The SPEAKER. Three objections are made and the bill is
stricken from the calendar.
Mr. TILSON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to pro-
ceed for one minute in connection with the bill to which objec-
tion has just been made.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to the request of the
gentleman from Connecticut?
There was no objection.
Mr. TILSON. Mr. Speaker, there were two bills on the Con-
sent Calendar to-day, relating to either a Saturday half holiday
or to a less number of hours per week for Government em-
ployees. To one of these objection has just been made. There
is another bill; I think it is No. 570 on the Consent Calendar,
which refers to the same general subject of shorter hours per
week for other employees of the Government. In view of the
probable objections to this bill, as were indicated by a minority
report liaving been filed against it, and the probable objection
to the subsequent bill of the same character for the same rea-
sons, I have asked the President to have made, through the
Director of the Budget, it survey of this subject, in order to
consider the feasibility and the additional cost of the legisla-
tion, whether the present service can be continued without se-
rious curtaimnent, or without too serious additional cost, and
to report to Congress at the beginning of the next session of
Congress. My request for this survey covered all the employees
of the Government.
Mr. KENDALL of Pennsylvania. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. TILSON. I yield.
Mr. KENDALL of Pennsylvania. Will that include postal
employees?
Mr. TILSON. Yes; surely.
Mr. KENDALL of Pennsylvania. It is not in the bill now.
Mr. TILSON. But it is in the bill that has just been ob-
jected to.

RECORD-HOUSE

JUNE 10

Mr. KENDALL of Pennsylvania. Just for the postal em-
ployees; but the other bill includes all employees of the Gov-
ernment except postal employees.
Mr. TILSON. I have asked that a survey be made of the
entire field, so that all Government employees may be treated
substantially alike so far as practicable. Without objection, I
should like to read into the RECORD the acknowledgment of my
request, so that it may be a matter of record.
This will acknowledge receipt of request which you made the other
day that a study be made by the Director of the Budget and other gov-
ernmental agencies as to the feasibility, practicability, and additional
cost, if any, of the legislation now pending in the House providing for a
Saturday half holiday of governmental employees, or a 44-hour week.
This matter has been considered and such a study will be made in
accordance with your suggestion, to be ready and available when Con-
gress convenes next December.
Sincerely yours,
WALTER H. NEWTON,
Secretary to the President.
Mr. BLANTON. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. TILSON. I yield.
Mr. BLANTON. There is a bill pending which seeks to
grant to all employees of the Government everywhere in the
United States a half holiday on Saturday during the hot sum-
mer months, which half holiday is now enjoyed by all of the
Government employees here in the District of Columbia. Is
there any chance of passing that bill before we adjourn?
Mr. TILSON. I have asked that this entire matter be
studied and reported upon by the Bureau of the Budget, which
has the closest possible relations with all the different services
of the Government, so that all employees of the Government
may be treated fairly and with substantial equality so far as
practicable.
Mr. BLANTON. Yes; but if We are going to give a half
holiday on Saturday during the hot summer months to all of
the Government employees in the District of Columbia we
should likewise give it to all employees of the Government
everywhere in the United States, which embraces all of the
postal employees of the Government.
Mr. TILSON. I desire that a study of the entire matter be
made before we meet again next December. Summer is now
coming on and many of the Government employees have a Sat-
urday half holiday already during the summer months.
Mr. BLANTON. But those outside the city of Washington
do not have a half holiday on Saturday during the hot summer
months.
Mr. TILSON. They are to be included in this study, so that
if possible all may be treated alike.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. MICHENER). The time of
the gentleman from Connecticut has expired.
Mr. HOCH. I ask unanimous consent to proceed for one-half
minute.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, it is so
ordered.
There was no objection.
Mr. HOCH.' Mr. Speaker, I would like to say that I offered
an objection to this bill because of the necessity of this survey
in order that we might know just how the various branches of
the service would be affected and how much it would cost.
That was the reason for my objection, and not because of any
belief formed against the principle itself of the bill. I believe
that survey should be made; I knew it was going to be made,
and for that reason I felt that this is not a measure to be acted
upon by unanimous consent. It should come up when we have
all the facts and the bill can be co,-sidered on its merits under
the rules of the House.
SALARY GRADES, MECHANICS' HELPERS
The next business on the Consent Calendar was the bill
(H. R. 9227) to establish additional salary grades for me-
chanics' helpers in the motor-vehicle service.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to the present considera-
tion of the bill?
There was no objection.
The Clerk read the bill, as follows:
Be it enacted, etc., That section 6, paragraph 3, of the act entitled
"An act reclassifying the salaries of postmasters and -employees of th6
Postal Service, readjusting their salaries and compensation on an equi-
table basis, increasing postal rates to provide for such readjustment, and
for other purposes," approved February 28, 1925 (43 Stat., p. 1060;
U. S. C., title 39, sec. 116), and the act entitled "An act to allow the
Postmaster General to promote mechanics' helpers to the first grade of



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0169.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

special mechanics," approved May 29, 1928 (45 Stat., p. 998; Supp.
I1, U. S. C., title 39, see. 116), are hereby modified to read as follows:
"The salary grades of mechanics' helpers employed in the motor-
vehicle service shall be $1,600, $1,700, and $1,800 per annum: Provided,
That original appointments shall be made to the $1,600 grade, and
promotions shall.be made to the next higher grade at the beginning of
a quarter following one year's satisfactory service in each grade: Pro-
vided further, That after one year's service in the $1,800 grade mechan-
ics' helpers may be promoted to the first grade of general mechanics
or special mechanics, as vacancies occur: Provided further, That this
act shall be effective July 1, 1930."
With the following committee amendment:
On page 2, line 13, after the word "may," insert the following:
"in the discretion of the Postmaster General."
The committee amendment was agreed to.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time,
was read the third time, and passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
MOUNT M'KINLEY NATIONAL PARK, ALASKA
The next business on the Consent Calendar was Senate Joint
Resolution 155, to provide for the naming of a prominent
mountain or peak within the boundaries of Mount McKinley
National Park, Alaska, in honor of Carl Ben Eielson.
The Clerk read the title of the resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the present
consideration of the resolution?
There was no objection.
The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:
Resolved, etc., That a mountain or peak, unofficially known as Copper
Mountain, located at the headwaters of the Mount McKinley River,
lying in a northeasterly direction from Mount McKinley National Park,
Alaska, is hereby permanently named Mount Eielson in honor of the
pioneer work In aviation performed in Alaska and the north by Carl
Ben Eielson.
The resolution was ordered to be read a third time, was read
the third time, and passed.
A motion to reconsider the vote by which the resolution was
passed was laid on the table.
UNITED STATES NAVAL HOSPITAL, WASHINGTON, D. C.
The next business on the Consent Calendar was the bill
(H. R. 9676) to authorize the Secretary of the Navy to proceed
with certain public works at the United States Naval Hospital,
Washington, D. C.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the present
consideration of the bill?
Mr. CRAMTON. Mr. Speaker, reserving the right to object,
I have an amendment to suggest which I understand is agree-
able to those in charge of this legislation. This bill proposes a
large medical-unit development at the Naval Hospital. Adja-
cent to that is to be constructed very soon the national head-
quarters of the Pharmaceutical Association of the United States,
also the Public Health Service building, and it seems to me it is
highly desirable, if possible, to bring together there other
medical activities, possibly the Army Medical Museum and Li-
brary and other things. In order that there may be some unity
of thought in all of that building program, I am asking that
a provision be incorporated-which I have discussed with Mr.
Wetmore, the Supervising Architect-so that the construction
will be subject to the approval of the Public Buildings Com-
mission and the plans submitted to the Fine Arts Commission.
I will offer that amendment if the bill is taken up for con-
sideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection?
Mr. McCLINTIC of Oklahoma. Mr. Speaker, reserving the
right to object-and I do not intend to object-I simply want
to say that an agreement has been made between certain pro-
ponents of the bill and myself with respect to certain amend-
meats; and following the terms of that agreement, I do not
object and will offer two amendments to the bill which have
been agreed upon.
Mr. BLANTON. MIr. Speaker, reserving the right to object,
I want to ask the gentleman from Illinois a question.
Mr. WOODRUFF. If the gentleman will direct his questions
to me, I will be glad to answer them.
Mr. BLANTON. I would like to know what is going to be the
ultimate maximum limit of cost which is going to be approved
by the gentleman and his committee in reference to this hos-
pital?
Mr. WOODRUFF. I will say to the gentleman from Texas
that the gentleman frony Oklahoma proposes to offer in due
time an amendment to the bill reducing the autholrization from
$3,200,000 to $1,500,000. That amendment meets the approval

of the committee, and I am authorized to say that the com-
mittee will be glad to accept the amendment.
Mr. BLANTON. I am not going to object, but I just wanted
an understanding. The amendment will mean nothing if it is
the intention of the committee later on to go ahead with the
plans just as if this amendment were not adopted and then pro-
vide additional appropriations later.
Mr. WOODRUFF. My friend from Texas will realize that no
Member of this House can look into the future and see the de-
mands to be made by any departnment of this Government.
Mr. BLANTON. Is not it a fact that hospital can not be
built for the $1,500,000?
Mr. WOODRUFF. I have not the slightest idea that it can.
Mr. BLANTON. Does not the gentleman know that if the
purposes of the committee are carried out the full amount now
carried in this bill will be required?
Mr. WOODRUFF. Undoubtedly it will ultimately.
Mr. BLANTON. Then why the amendment? Why take two
bites at the cherry?
Mr. WOODRUFF. I am glad to say that the only member of
the conurittee, so far as I know, who opposes this bill as it
was originally written, is the gentleman from Oklahoma. The
Naval Affairs Committee always seeks to come before the House
with unanimity on any proposition. We always try to bring
in legislation that has the unanimous support of the committee,
and we do that whenever it is possible. The gentleman will
understand why the committee has yielded in this instance.
Mr. BLANTON. If it is necessary to build a hospital it
ought to be built right, and I do not see why we should adopt
the amendment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection?
There was no objection.
The Clerk read the bill, as follows:
Be it enacted, etc., That the Secretary of the Navy is hereby author-
ized to replace, remodel, or extend existing structures and to construct
additional buildings at the United States Naval Hospital, Washington,
D. C., at a cost not to exceed $3,200,000, of which $250,000 shall be
charged to the naval hospital fund.
Mr. McCLINTIC of Oklahoma. Mr. Speaker, I offer an
amendment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Okla-
homa offers an amendment, which the Clerk will report.
The Clerk read as follows:
Amendment offered by Mr. MCCLINTIC of Oklahoma: On page 1, after
the word "to," in line 3, strike out the words " replace, remodel, or
extend existing structures and to construct additional buildings," and
insert " construct suitable buildings for hospital purposes."
Mr. McCLINTIC of Oklahoma. Mr. Speaker, this amend-
ment simply changes the phraseology so that the amount appro-
priated can be used to construct suitable buildings for hospital
purposes.
Mr. LAGUARDIA. What are you going to do with the exist-
ing buildings?
Mr. McCLINTIC of Oklahoma. Such existing buildings as
are not necessary to be torn down can be utilized.
Mr. LAGUARDIA. With the gentleman's amendment we
could not spend one cent for repairs.
Mr. McCLINTIC of Oklahoma. It is not necessary at this
time to repair any of the existing buildings, and if that becomes
necessary we will then authorize such repairs as should be
made.
Mr. LAGUARDIA. All right, but just a moment; let the
House understand what it is doing. The gentleman then would
want $3,200,000 exclusively for new buildings and would pay
for repairs out of special appropriations.
Mr. McCLINTIC of Oklahoma. The gentleman is in error,
because I have another amendment following which reduces the
amount to $1,250,000.
Mr. LAGUARDIA. Of course, I have no means of knowing
what the gentleman has in his pocket.
Mr. STAFFORD. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. McCLINTIC of Oklahoma. Yes.
Mr. STAFFORD. Has the gentleman or the Committee on
Naval Affairs any information as to costs submitted for the
construction of this proposed hospital building?
Mr. McCLINTIC of Oklahoma. I want to say to the gentle-
man that at the present time the Navy has 7,284 beds in naval
hospitals. The peak load for 1929, including 2,917 veteran
patients, was 5,892. The $15,000,000 recently appropriated to
construct additional hospitals for veteran patients will provide
additional facilities for 3,900 patients. Therefore, should the
2,917 veteran patients now being taken care of by the naval
hospitals be withdrawn, there would be left 3,300 vacant beds in
naval hospitals.

1930

10413



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0170.txt

10414                           CONGRESSIONAL
It was my idea that this amount of money would take care of
400 or 500 additional patients and would be sufficient for the
present needs of the Navy and it would not be necessary to
authorize the construction of any more naval hospitals until
after tle Veterans' Bureau program had been carried out, to
see whether or not we needed additional facilities.
Mr. STAFFORD. If tie gentleman will permit, as I read the
report the end in view was not only to provide hospital quarters,
but the main idea was to have constructed there a replica, if I
may use that term, of the Walter Reed Hospital, with labora-
tories, classrooms, dental apartments, and so forth. Now, the
question that rises in my mind at this moment is whether
$1,500,000, or whatever amount tire gentleman proposes to place
as a limit of cost, is going to be enough to adequately carry out
tie real purpose of the Navy Department. I was in sympathy
with the idea that tire Navy Department should have a com-
panion establishment for their medical activities to the Army
at Walter Reed-not a hospital alone, but a center for all the
medical activities connected with the Navy down here on the
1'otorrac at thre present site. I would think the gentleman is
circumscribing, and virtually more than circumscribing, the
real purpose that the department had in view and that the
committee originally hal iii view in making recommendation for
a liit of cost of $3,200,000.
Mr. VINSON of Georgia. If tire gentleman wilt permit, I
will state to tire gentleman from Wisconsin that it is the inten-
tion of the Navy Department to use this hospital as a medical
school in connection with til hospital facilities there, and for
that reason tire Navy Department submitted plans and speci-
jieaiions that would call for an expenditure of three and a half
