welcomed with open arms, but the welcome
might not be quite as warm as it would have
been a little earlier. There's been a slow-up
in the break-neck pace of our improving re-
lations. The Soviets are taking a harder line
on arms control, a harder line on German
unification and a harder line on Lithuania.
This shift follows a year of Incredible ac-
commodation from the Soviet Union. There
is a lot of speculation in this town about
what the U.S. reaction should be to this
harder line, particularly Moscow's tough
stance on Lithuania. Should the harder line
have an impact on the crucial arms control
negotiations that will be the subject of the
summit? Some have argued that the summit
should have been canceled because of the
Lithuanian crisis.
In addition to arms control, the Congress
has begun work on the fiscal 1991 defense
authorization bill. What weight should be
given the new hard line as we decide how
much to spend next year on defense?

And what of Gorbachev, himself? Ques-
tions have been raised about his survival.
What role should that play In our delibera-
t ions?
These are all important questions-ques-
tions about our tactics in dealing with the
Soviet Union. But tactics are one thing and
our national safety is another. How do we
determine what we can safely do even if the
line from Moscow-or indeed the leader in
Moscow-changes?
We do it with a cold-eyed analysis of what
is truly important-the state of the military
threat posed to the United States by the
Soviet Union. And that is what I would like
to talk to you about today.
The current debate over this threat was
Joined in earnest on March 1st when CIA
Director William Webster testified before
the House Armed Services Committee at the
same time that Defense Secretary Dick
Cheney appeared before a subcommittee of
the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Some
things they agreed on, some things they dis-
agreed on. In their disagreement lies the
very heart of our defense debate this year
and the larger issue of the end of the Cold
War.
First of all, Cheney and Webster do not
disagree about the enormous changes we
have seen in 1989 in the Soviet Union and
Eastern  Europe and the impact these
changes have upon the security of the
United States. Both of them, for example,
would agree that the conventional threat to
Europe has changed significantly. The uni-
lateral force reductions ordered by Mr. Gor-
bachev, the reductions in the armed forces
of the Soviet Union's Warsaw Pact allies
and the political changes that have gone on
in the Eastern European countries have al-
ready changed the military situation. The
Soviets have already agreed to withdraw
their troops from Hungary and Czechoslo-
vakia by mid-1991 and the impending agree-
ment on Conventional Forces In Europe or
CFE will reduce the Soviet threat even
more. The result is, as both Cheney and
Webster would attest, a dramatic and signif-
icant reduction in the threat to Europe.
Similarly, both  Cheney and    Webster
would agree that there has been little
change in the Soviet Union's strategic
forces. The Soviets continue to build more
ICBMs, more submarines that carry ballistic
missiles and more bombers. However, they
do not appear to be building weapons that
they would have to destroy under a START
agreement and may not be buying as many
Blackjack bombers as we once thought. But
otherwise, the modernization of their strate-
gic forces continue. Both Cheney and Web-
ster would agree-no change here.
In between these two extremes-enormous
changes in Europe and little change In the
strategic equation-there have been some
changes in Soviet forces in other regional
areas, particularly the Indian Ocean and
the Far East, and in other parts of the
Soviet budget, naval forces for example.
And both Cheney and Webster essentially
agree on what is going in these areas as
well.
However, there is a difference between
them when it comes to speculating about

what might happen in the Soviet Union
itself.
Dick Cheney is famous for being the most
pessimistic of President Bush's top advisors
about Gorbachev's chances for survival. A
year ago he predicted that Gorbachev's re-
forms would fail and that he would be re-
placed by someone more hostile to U.S. in-
terests. Since then he has been asked fre-
quently, most recently about a week ago, if
he has changed his mind. Cheney said no-
and even added that his pessimism had
deepened because Gorbachev seemed to be
backing away from making radical economic
reforms.
Judge Webster sees things differently.
First, he believes that Gorbachev is in
better shape politically than does Cheney.
Second, Webster believes that the real
threat to Gorbachev is from those who be-
lieve that reform hasn't gone far enough,
not those who think it has gone to far.
Third, Webster does not reject the possibili-
ty that Gorbachev could be turned out of
office-even (as Cheney believes) by some-
one who would be more hostile to U.S. inter-
ests.
Projecting Gorbachev's future Is a cottage
industry In this town. Very often those who
would make predictions about it argue that
we have to be careful about what we do In
arms control and in our defense budget be-
cause Gorbachev might not survive. Some
defend Cheney's caution about changes in
our defense on this ground. Cheney some-
times characterizes tile argument this way,
himself. But that is not really what the
debate should be about.
What Webster said is that regardless of
what happens in the Soviet Union, the re-
duction we have seen in the threat to tile
West is irreversible in several very impor-
tant ways. Cheney, on tile other hand,
thinks that the threat could come back
fairly easily, say, for instance, if a hardliner
replaced Gorbachev. Tile critical part of the
debate, then, is not over the reversibility of
what is going on In the Soviet Union. It is
over the reversibility of the reduced threat
to the United States.
Cheney thinks a new Joseph Stalin or
Leonid Brezhnev could ramp the threat
back up again. Webster says It doesn't much
matter if a new Joe Stalin shows up, the
chaiges that have swept Eastern Europe
cannot be undone: the Eastern European
countries have gone their own way political-
ly and, while there might be some backslid-
ing in some countries, the reemergence of
pro-Soviet communist regimes throughout
Eastern Europe is most unlikely, to say the
least.
The Soviet high command used to have
direct control over the military forces of
Eastern Europe which contributed about 40
percent of tile Warsaw Pact's ground forces.
Now the Soviet military commander must
contemplate fighting his way through East-
ern Europe before even reaching NATO.
Webster says you can't get that particular
Humpty-Dumpty     back  together   again.
These changes are pretty much irreversible
no matter who rules in Moscow.
Basically, I think that Webster is right-
that in some important ways the Soviet

0 This "bullet" symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.

13584



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0075.txt

June 11, 1990
threat is reduced irreversibly. But there is
more,
Since Webster's testimony on March 1st,
there has been additional evidence to sup-
port the view that the changes in the threat
are not going to be reversed, that change is
deeper and even more irreversible than
Webster thought.
Fragmentary information is appearing in
the papers-and it's backed up by the intel-
ligence community-that the Red Army is
in deep trouble-engulfed In the same tur-
moil that has afflicted Soviet society. The
Soviet military is under siege from a host of
social problems-including ethnic and politi-
cal dissent, deteriorating living conditions,
separtist activity, a post-Afghanistan syn-
drome, declining power and status, and
emerging    generational  cleavages-that
clearly affect its ability to perform:
-Soldiers. particularly in the Transcau-
cuses, are deserting their units and Joining
unofficial "national armies" that are resist-
ing the Soviet security forces.
-Reservists aren't reporting for duty
when they are called up and protests forced
the Soviet General Staff to cancel a reserve
call up last January during the riots in
Baku.
-Draft resistance increased last year and
may rise sharply this year as results of sepa-
ratist activity in tle Baltics and Transcau-
cuses.
It seems increasingly evident that the Red
Army Is In the grip of an institutional crisis.
The House Armed Services Committee
asked some of our leading experts on the
Soviet military, both outside the govern-
ment and in the intelligence community.
how all this affects the ability of the Red
Army to perform as it used to. They agreed
that if faced by a credible invasion threat-
namely a new Hitler-the Red Army could
reconstitute itself quickly.
But using the Red Army outside of Soviet
borders would be very difficult, if not impos-
sible in some instances. It took almost a
year for the Soviets to mobilize for a possi-
ble invasion of Poland in 1980: doing It in
1990 seems out of the question. A full-scale
attack on Western Europe or another Af-
ghanistan adventure seem equally improb-
able.
In addition, some experts noted that
doubts about the reliability of the Red
Army put significant limits on how it might
be used even inside the Soviet Union. They
have to be careful about the ethnic composi-
tion of the forces they use-for example,
last January's occupation of Baku in Azer-
baijan.
The growing evidence that the Soviet mili-
tary is an institution in crisis adds another
element of irreversibility to the reduction in
the Soviet threat. It affects not Just the
conventional threat to Europe but the
Soviet threat everywhere. An army in the
throes of an authority crisis and facing pos-
sible disintegration is not a reliable instru-
ment for external aggression.
The debate, then, isn't over whether the
reforms inside the Soviet Union can be re-
versed. They can. The debate Is over wheth-
er these enormous changes In the threat to
the United States can be reversed. The
answer is-by and large they can't.
But this isn't the whole story. There are
some areas where the Soviet threat has not
diminished much, if at all. As I mentioned
earlier, for instance, Cheney and Webster
were agreed that there had been little
change in what the Soviets were doing with
their strategic forces.
And strategic forces aren't the only place
where Cheney sees no change. The defense

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
secretary recently completed a review of the
four major new aircraft programs underway
at the Pentagon and reported on his plans
for those programs to the House and Senate
Armed Services Committees. When he re-
ported, he argued that the Soviet Union
would continue, as it has In the past, to
invest heavily in air defense weapons, there-
by necessitating going ahead with the B-2
because improvements in Soviet air defenses
will mean the B-I can't perform as a pene-
trating bomber beyond the 1990s. Cheney
also predicted that the Soviets would con-
tinue to produce new qualitatively better
weapons as they had in the past although
perhaps with some delay in procurement.
For example, he predicted the Soviets would
produce new tactical fighers as follow-ons to
their Su-27 Flanker and MiG-29 Fulcrum,
thus necessitating our continued expendi-
ture on the Advanced Tactical Fighter.
These assertions present us with a differ-
ent kind of question, a lot toughter kind of
question, namely, what are the Soviets
going to do in the futue. Will they continue
to spend as much on defense as they have in
the past? Let's see what we know that bears
on that question,
The CIA recently gave Its annual report
on the state of the Soviet economy. Eco-
nomic performance In 1989 was "abysmal,"
the worst since Gorbachev took over, the
report said. CIA believes that the near-term
prospect of even a modest economic recov-
ery appears to be "remote at best."
According to press accounts, Soviet econo-
mists visiting In this country were surprised
by the CIA report when it came out. They
said the CIA was too optimistic. They said
the real Soviet GNP was smaller than that
estimated by the CIA. and the percentage
that goes to the military was higher than
the CIA thought.
Moreover, the Soviet economy in such a
fragile state that a severe shock-such as
ethnic unrest or prolonged labor strikes in
key economic areas, both of which seem
likely-could cause the economy to deterio-
rate sharply.
To compound the problem, Gorbachev has
backed away from necessary reforms, After
pushing through political measures that
greatly enhanced his power, Gorbachev de-
veloped a set of radical economic measures
that he presented to his Presidential Coun-
cil for discussion. He decided the risk of
social unrest was too great and instead or-
dered some watered-down reforms that will
fail just as they did In the past. The Soviet
economy is collapsing and it doesn't look
like Gorbachev can turn it around.
Bad news for the Soviet economy is good
news for American security. I listen to what
the intelligence services say about the state
of the Soviet economy and don't see how
Moscow can spend the billions of rubles on
defense that Cheney says they will. Cheney
listens to them and says the follow-on air-
craft might be deployed a couple of years
late. I am deeply skeptical.
It's not just billions of rubles we are talk-
ing about. Scientists, engineers and other
technical people are also in short supply
and can only support so many initiatives. If
its talented workers, and its limited comput-
er and other resources continue to be dedi-
cated chiefly to defense, it will have to pass
up desperately needed improvements in the
civilian economy.
And just how was outlined by the CIA
which put it in these words:
"Soviet economic performance was abys-
mal In 1989-the worst since Gorbachev
took over... Widespread breakdowns in

13585
transportation and distribution interfered
with the delivery of output to both produc-
ers and consumers. The vital energy sector
led the downturn In industry; for the first
time since the 1940s. Total energy produc-
tion fell compared to the previous year."
End quote.
Next year the Soviets will start on an-
other five-year plan. Gorbachev knows that
in the absence of radical reforms his princi-
pal hope on the economic front is to shift
more resources from defense to civilian uses.
I think it is possible we will see cutbacks in
areas-such as air defenses, aircraft carriers
and even strategic forces-that will be sig-
nificant and add another element of Irrever-
sibility to the declining Soviet threat.
If this happens, Cheney's arguments for
such weapons as the B-2 and the advanced
tactical fighter will be sharply undercut.
So, the real debate we should be having
this year is not about whether Moscow is
taking a harder line for the moment. It's
not even about whether Gorbachev and his
reforms will succeed, although we hope they
do for the sake of the Soviet people. Our
arms control agreements and the steps we
take in our defense budget have to outlive
today's negotiating posture and even today's
Kremlin leader. Our national security is for
keeps.
That's why the real debate is over the real
threat we face today and about how quickly
it could change, It's more than an academic
argument. How we decide it will determine
what we do in the 1991 defense budget. The
worst thing we can do is spend too little on
defense. The next worse thing we can do is
spend too much. We have it get it right.
From the preceding, we already know
something we can do. The threat to the
United States' allies and interests In Europe
is greatly diminished and it isn't coming
back. We can cut there.
We know the Soviets have so far contin-
ued to modernize their strategic nuclear ar-
senal. For the time being, we have in negoti-
ate those weapons down. They haven't
started giving strategic systems away yet. So
we should definitely go ahead with this
arms control summit. If we're worried about
changes in Moscow-in both policy and per-
sonnel-we're better off with an agreement
that will be binding on the next regime.
On the question of what we sbuld do
next with our new generation of suphisticat-
ed weapons such as the aircraft Cheney dis-
cussed we should be less sure. As f said, I'm
deeply skeptical about his prediction that
the Soviets will press ahead with two new
fighter planes and enormously expensive
new air defenses.
But even those who aren't that skeptical
should agree that this may not be the time
for us to press ahead full bore with our
matching modernization. With the terrible
economic troubles facing the Soviet Union,
its new five year plan may have some sur-
prises in it at the expense of the Soviet mili-
tary. It just might be worth waiting a while
to find out.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0076.txt

13586
TRIBUTE TO STANLEY K.
SHEINBAUM
HON. DON EDWARDS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 11, 1990
Mr. EDWARDS of California. Mr. Speaker,
on Tuesday, June 12, Stanely K. Sheinbaum
will be honored at a benefit for Human Rights
Watch on the occasion of his 70th birthday.
His devoted efforts over many years in de-
fense of civil liberties and on behalf of peace
and justice around the world certainly make
him the logical choice for this tribute.
But it is perhaps typical of Stanley, that his
special evening will also serve as a fundrais-
ing benefit for Human Rights Watch, a group
with which he has been associated since
1981 and whose California chapter he has
chaired since 1987. After all, why waste a per-
fectly good birthday, when you can put it to
work for a good cause?
Stanley has been a long time good friend of
so many of us here in this Chamber. I know
my colleagues join me in offering hearty best
wishes for his 70th birthday.
I thought my colleagues might enjoy seeing
one of the tributes that will be paid to him on
his special night. Those remarks, by Richard
Parker, follow:
So, TELL ME, WHAT EXACTLY HAS SHEINBAUM
DONE To DESERVE THIS?
(By Richard Parker)
It was past midnight, and I was sound
asleep when the phone rang. "Pawkah" was
the first word I heard, but it told me in-
stantly who was calling. Who else could
kidnap the two "r"s in the name "Parker"
so easily? By the time I heard "I gotta tawk
ta ya", I barely noticed than an "I', an "a",
an "o" and a "u" had all been taken hostage
too. I knew though-even before the voice
told me-that this was "impawhtant".
It was Stanley. I don't remember where
he was calling from-it might have been a
plane at 40,000 feet, or a car rushing some-
where at 60 miles an hour, or some remote
part of the globe where most people don't
make even local calls, Nor do I recall now
why this particular call was "impawhtant"-
but it was, and it propelled me into sudden
and frantic activity.
It's been like that for more than 20 years
now-the phone will ring, and "Pawkah, I
gotta tawk ta ya" will launch me Into some
new responsibility or adventure. Many of
you have gotten the same call, with that
same unmistakable voice at the other end of
the line-and, if you're like me, you greet it
as a sort of wake-up call from life.
Mark Twain once observed that he tried
to act by a simple credo. "Do the right
thing", he said. "This will satisfy some
people, and astonish the rest". Stanley has
been satisfying and astonishing people as
long as I've known him. In the Sixties, it
was by recognizing early on the horror and
stupidity of the Vietnam War-and saying
so publicly and forcefully, while too many
peers were still calibrating their timorous
doubts and concerns. He wrote for, and
bankrolled, Ramparts in its assaults on the
period's conventional wisdom. He ran for
Congress twIce-a full-fledged member of
Lyndon Johnson's party, and a full-out op-
ponent of the President's Asian war. He
went to Chicago in the summer of 1968-

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
and voted his heart, as a "Clean for Gene"
McCarthy delegate.
In the Seventies, he took on Nixon, Kis-
singer & Co., as head of the Pentagon
Papers defense team-an act, I told him
then, meant only to prove he was biparti-
san. In truth, his willingnes to do right, by
its victory, served notice on those who
sought not only to perpetuate an evil war,
but to compromise our basic rights to priva-
cy and a free press as well.
A peer of his might have called it the Sev-
enth Day, and rested-but not Stanley. The
Pentagon Papers drove home for him Just
how deeply threatened our Bill of Rights
was, nearly two centuries after its creation,
and how deeply justice cried out for its de-
fense. So it was on to the ACLU, and its
Southern California chairmanship-and to
the Committee for Public Justice, the Legal
Defense Center, the Bill of Rights Founda-
tion, the Center for Law in the Public Inter-
est, and the Clarence Darrow Foundation,
Just for good measure.
But Justice requires, for its success, a pop-
ulace schooled in liberty's rights-and obli-
gations. So in addition to his other responsi-
bilities, Stanley signed on as a Regent of the
University of California-and as a fellow of
the Scientists Institute for Public Informa-
tion, a director of the Council on Economic
Priorities, a founder of Energy Action, a
trustee of the Federation of American Sci-
entists, and a commissioner of the Califor-
nia Postsecondary Education Commission.
And still no seventh day of rest, There
was the planet to worry about-and eight
years of Reagan to contend with. So it was
on to service with People for the American
Way, Human Rights Watch, the Interna-
tional Center for Peace in the Middle East,
Common Cause. And of course word needed
to be gotten out on all these issues-so a
magazine was needed to be started, New
Perspectives, with Stanley as publisher (the
fifth or sixth he's been involved with, de-
pending on who's counting).
Then there are the arts. Apart from as-
sembling with his wife, Betty, their extraor-
dinary collection of modern painting and
sculpture (from Calder to deKooning), Stan-
ley found time to chair the LA Music Cen-
ter's Dance Committee-a fact that led one
of his more purely political friends to mean,
"Now when Sheinbaum calls, I don't know
whether it's for Tutu or the tutus".
Why is It that we have all gathered here
tonight to acknowledge and praise this quite
remarkable man? At 70, most men would
expect such a gathering to include a gold
watch, a pat on the back and wishes for a
pleasant retirement. But who among us-
least of all Stanley-could think about retir-
ing this national treasure, when he was so
much yet to give, and the world offers so
much yet to do?
Instead, I'd like to imagine we're here, re-
calling the night when Jack Kennedy gath-
ered a hundred Nobel Laureates at the
White House, and told them that never had
the place held so much intelligence-save
when Jefferson dined alone. In my mind,
we've gathered tonight to show Los Angeles
that in this town never has so much intelli-
gence, wit and commitment been assembled
in one room-save when Stanley works the
phones alone.
Socrates once said he was the wisest of
men, because he knew nothing-but I think
you and I can go the old philosopher one
better. We are the more blessed of men and
women, because we know Stanley. Watching
and working with him, we have learned
what energy, devotion and vision can do in

June 11, 1990
an often dark and despairing world.
Through him, we have seen what Mark
Twain meant to "do right"-and have been
thereby not Just "satisfied and astonished".
but learned again the greater ability to do
right ourselves.
If you asked him, Stanley would probably
tell you knowing that was the best birthday
gift of all.
ROBERT N. NOYCE
HON. TOM CAMPBELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 11, 1990
Mr. CAMPBELL of California. Mr. Speaker,
the history of American ingenuity and entre-
preneurship includes great names like Eli
Whitney, Thomas Edison, and Henry Ford.
Robert N. Noyce, who died Sunday, June 3, of
a heart attack, belongs on this list as well.
In 1959, Robert Noyce coinvented the inte-
grated circuit, also known as the microchip.
The integrated circuit-which harnessed the
tremendous power of semiconductors into
practical use-was the catalyst for the elec-
tronics revolution. It became the building block
for products like personal computers, calcula-
tors, and programmable digital watches. Like
the Model T and the light bulb, the microchip
helped America change the world.
Robert Noyce's contribution did not end
with his invention. In 1968, Mr. Noyce helped
found the Intel Corp., where he developed a
method to build computer memories on semi-
conductor chips. Not only gifted with a brilliant
scientific mind, Mr. Noyce was also a skilled
manager who became a leader in commercial-
izing the technologies his research made pos-
sible. He was also a forceful advocate for the
electronics industry in Washington, receiving
national awards in science and technology
from Presidents Carter and Reagan. This Feb-
ruary, he received the Charles Stark Draper
Award from President Bush.
Mr. Noyce's most recent endeavor, which
occupied him until the time of his death, was
his work as president of Sematech. Sematech
was founded in 1988 as a government-indus-
try consortium to revitalize America's chipmak-
ing. The future success of Sematech will be
the result of Mr. Noyce's foundation.
In addition to all the foregoing, and so many
other accomplishments, Bob Noyce was a
good man. He was unassuming, never intimi-
dating another through the impressive power
of his mind. He was curious about everything
and devoted to constructive analysis. His ap-
proach was always that of the problem solver,
rather than the cynic; and the result is a host of
achievements far beyond the technical areas
of electronics.
Mr. Speaker, Robert Noyce's ingenuity and
entrepreneurship have transformed the world.
He was also a kind man, whose humility was
as great as his genius. America is the richer
for his life, and the poorer for his passing.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0077.txt

June 11, 1990
DON'T USE A SLEDGEHAMMER
ON OUR DEFENSE FORCES
HON. PHILIP M. CRANE
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 11, 1990
Mr. CRANE. Mr. Speaker, I am increasingly
worried about the surface level analysis we
are seeing today concerning our Nation's de-
fense needs. For one to believe that war, in
its many forms, has become obsolete in
today's world in quite obviously incorrect.
However, it seems that this is the strong belief
of proponents of a peace-dividend. Short-run,
quick-fix policies are often popular political
maneuvers, but seldom prove to be the cor-
rect response in a given situation.
Sir Issac Newton once said that "every
action has an equal and opposite reaction".
Taking action without careful consideration of
such reactions is foolhardy and very danger-
ous. One need only consider nations such as
Iraq and Syria who maintain substantial forces
equipped with the most advanced weaponry
to realize the need for a continued strong de-
fense. Furthermore, the fact that unrest is still
prevalent throughout Eastern Europe, as is
evidenced by the turmoil in Lithuania as well
as the outcome of the recent fraudulent elec-
tions in Romania, is reason enough to think
twice before we take a sledgehammer to our
defense programs.
History has proven again and again the
foolish nature of hastily implemented policies.
To quote from his essay entitled, "Don't Cash
the Peace Dividend," which appeared in the
March 26 Issue of Time, Mr. Charles Krauth-
ammer states, "We are once again in the grip
of post war euphoria, and our instinct is to do
what we have always done: demobilize first,
ask questions later." We cannot afford to
allow ourselves to become victims of post
cold-war euphoria, and permit our Nation to
follow the policies of immediate demobilization
in the face of real potential threats around the
globe. I strongly urge my colleagues to read
the following article entitled, "Don't use a
Sledgehammer on our Defense Forces" by F.
Andy Messing, Jr.
[From the Los Angeles Times, Feb. 21. 1990]
DON'T UsE A SLEDGEHAMMER ON OUR DEFENSE
FORCES
(By F. Andy Messing, Jr.)
In a preemptive move, Secretary of De-
fense Dick Cheney announced a "streamlin.
ing" of the D.S. military, theoretically to
save $39 billion. He had previously ordered
the defense Establishment to reduce spend-
Ing by $180 billion over a three-year period.
Now President Bush is planning troop cut.
backs. These are opening plays in a football
game between the Administration and Con-
gress-a game designed to take advantage of
the temporary aberration caused by the
greatest geopolitical reorganization since
World War II. But the players are not fo-
cusing on certain vectors that will eventual-
ly converge and how to handle them.
From 1946 to 1956, Japan and Germany
rebuilt their states with the help of coun-
tries that were instruments of their defeat.
In that period, the world saw these nations
rebound and become stable. Then, between
1957 and 1970, they became serious competi.

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS

13587

tors in the world marketplace. After 1971, these multidimensional threats with the re-
they became superpowers.                   sources to do the job of protecting America.

Today we see an analogous situation: The
West Is starting to rebuild the Soviet Union
and the East Bloc. But it will not take the
Soviets as long to recover. The Soviets' nat-
ural resources, technological advances and
taste for a better life will make their re-
bound possible, amazing even their most
cynical detractors.
The only major difference today from 40
years ago is that both the Japanese and
German military-industrial complexes were
destroyed and then restricted. But the mill-
tary-industrial complex of the Soviet Union
will still be intact, commanding about one-
quarter of gross national product. Keeping
in mind that President Mikhail S. Gorba-
chev may not have real control over his
military, much less be able to retain power,
one can safely assume that the Soviet mili-
tary institution will promote its own agenda.
Careful moves will enable it to survive an
Initial contraction and flourish as the eco-
nomic transformation occurs, thanks to
Western   Investment. Mutant forces-in
Cuba, Vietnam, Angola and other areas-
will emulate this model, generating their
own turmoil. This will contribute to conflict
aimed at the Free World for decades to
come.
The expanding world population, with Its
depletion of our environment and resources,
Is another vector generating conflict. The
population of our planet is 5.3 billion and
growing exponentially. This crowding will
replicate the psychology experiment demon-
strating how two mice In a grocery box with
an ounce of cheese are friendly, 20 under
the same conditions are feisty and 200 mur-
derous. The competition for markets, re-
sources and trade routes will in itself gener-
ate turmoil.
Furthermore, the Idea that war will
become obsolete, as predicted by the au-
thors of "Megatrends 2000," especially when
the drug and terrorism vectors are consid-
ered, is unfortunately ridiculous. The notion
that the level of intensity will decrease is
pure fantasy, because the proliferation of
nuclear, biological and chemical weapons is
on the Increase.
As the world reels under an average of 30
wars a year, our leaders are auctioning off
our constitutionally mandated defense Es-
tablishment for a "peace dividend" that is
shortsighted compared to the consequences.
The remaining hollow shell, If not directed
toward these specific, expanding threats,
will eventually prove as rigid as the French
military was In the late '30s.
Our President and military leaders, when
cutting defens spending, should not be
tempted to use a sledgehammer when they
can use a scalpel. Accordingly, there must
be selective use of Special Operation Forces
to keep violence at Its lowest level. Conven-
tional brute force will be too expensive in
terms of manpower, political risk and re-
sources for the increasing and frequent
small conflicts around the world. It should
be saved and used only when appropriate,
with Congress supporting this concept.
Cheney must not focus on a cheaper ver-
sion of the same old military with the same
antiquated insights. He has to reorient and
redesign our defense Establishment to meet

THE    60TI   ANNIVERSARY      OF
THE     PORT      WASHINGTON,
LONG    ISLAND, CHAMBER        OF
COMMERCE
HON. ROBERT J. MRAZEK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 11, 1990
Mr. MRAZEK. Mr. Speaker, on June 13 the
Port Washington, Long Island, Chamber of
Commerce will celebrate its 60th anniversary
as a nonprofit organization dedicated to serv-
ing the commercial, industrial, civic and gener-
al interests of the Port Washington communi-
ty. I call the attention of my colleagues to this
milestone and commend the Port Washington
Chamber of Commerce for its contributions to
the quality of life on Long Island.
Since its inception in 1930, the Port Wash-
ington Chamber of Commerce has taken an
active and visible role in promoting the com-
munity. The organization distributed postal
covers to commemorate the town's distinction
as point of origin for the first mail flight to Ber-
muda. Later, the occasion of the first passen-
ger flight to Europe saw chamber-organized
ceremonies draw 5,000 spectators to see off
the Pan Am Yankee Clipper.
In recent years, the chamber has continued
its support of the community. It is involved in
a campaign to protect and enhance the com-
munity's waterways and waterfront. It lobbied
successfully for the enforcement of no-dis-
charge regulations in Manhasset Bay and for
the installation of pumpout stations at the
town of North Hempstead dock and a local
marina. It is lending its support to the revital-
ization of the town's central business district
and to the alleviation of parking problems in
the town, and serves as a leading participant
in the Port Washington Child Care Partnership
to bring improved child care services to work-
ing parents.
At a dinner dance on June 13, the chamber
will install its 60th anniversary officers and
board of directors, Mr. Speaker. It also will
bestow its Distinguished Community Service
Award on Andrea Martone, a longtime Port
Washington resident and the editor of the Port
Washington News.
Mr. Speaker, the business leaders, profes-
sionals and residents who make up the Port
Washington Chamber of Commerce deserve a
special commendation for their community ac-
tivism and for continuing a spirit of voluntarism
for the community that has been a hallmark of
the organization for 60 years. I'm sure my col-
leagues join with me today in saluting the Port
Washington Chamber of Commerce for its
good works, and I wish the organization fur-
ther successes in the future.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0078.txt

13588
IN  SUPPORT     OF   PASSAGE     OF
THE    EXPORT      ADMINISTRA-
TION ACT AND CONGRESSMAN
LEVINE'S AMENDMENT
HON. ENI F.H. FALEOMAVAEGA
OF AMERICAN SAMOA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 11, 1990
Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Mr. Speaker, I join
my colleagues in support of passage of the
Export Administration Act and the inclusion of
Congressman LEVINE'S amendment to control
the export of crude oil from California.
Mr. Speaker, I support Congressman LE-
VINE'S amendment to the Export Administra-
tion Act. Export controls on Alaska and Cali-
fornia crude oil affect much of the Nation and
especially my territory because our prices for
petroleum products are tied to prices on the
west coast. Current export restrictions assure
that our domestic suppliers have adequate
local crude oil for their refineries. If a change
in export policy causes these refiners to suffer
a reduced supply of their preferred local feed-
stock, the result could likely be processing in-
efficiency, higher raw material costs, and
higher consumer prices for finished petroleum
products.
Like other areas of the country, the econo-
my and people of my territory rely on petrole-
um products for nearly all our energy needs.
We have no access to nuclear or hydroelec-
tric power, and coal is not a feasible substi-
tute for petroleum. In addition to gasoline and
diesel used by our cars and trucks, our com-
mercial fishing fleet and air carriers require
large amounts of distillate fuels. We also rely
on diesel fuel for electrical power generation.
I am, therefore, concerned that export of
domestic crude oil could put upward pressure
on prices for petroleum products In American
Samoa.
Mr. Speaker, for these reasons, I support
the amendment as introduced by my col-
league Congressman LEVINE.
EVARTS HIGH SCHOOL SETS
THE PACE IN EDUCATION
HON. HAROLD ROGERS
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 11, 1990
Mr. ROGERS. Mr. Speaker, Evarts High
School In Harlan County, KY, is setting trends
in education that other schools across the
Nation would do well to emulate.
Two years ago, the Prichard Committee for
Academic Excellence chose Evarts High and
seven other Kentucky schools to participate in
a grand experiment. The Prichard project, as it
has come to be known, encourages schools
to begin the school year with a clean slate. A
new classroom structure. New and innovative
classes, many specially designed to meet the
needs of Appalachian students. New opportu-
nities for teachers to share their unique and
underutilized talents with their school.
The Prichard project works from one funda-
mental principle: motivation. Teachers, admin-
istrators, students, parents, and the local busi-

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
ness community have been enlisted to build
an Appalachian school they can all be proud
of.
And they have every right to be proud.
Teachers and students alike are thriving at
Evarts High School. Test scores are up. Inter-
est in classes, and old-fashioned school spirit
have never been higher. All just two semes-
ters after the Prichard program took effect.
I applaud Evarts High School and the com-
munity which it serves for participating in the
Prichard project. The whole Evarts community
will surely see further success in the second
year of the project, because the Prichard com-
mittee has provided a sound plan, and dedi-
cated legions of students, faculty, administra-
tors, and parents at Evarts High School have
put the program to work.
STUDENTS      GATHER      FOR    NA-
TIONAL HISTORY DAY COMPE-
TITION
HON. ROMANO L. MAZZOLI
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 11, 1990
Mr. MAZZOLI. Mr, Speaker, a different kind
of summit is taking place this week in the
