to rely on the professionalism, judgment, com-
passion, commitment and courage of the U.S.
Coast Guard. From hurricanes to airplace
crashes, from drug smugglers to foreign fac-
tory trawlers, the Coast Guard is always on
call-just as it has been for 200 years.
We have learned to trust the Coast Guard
with all we hold dear--our property, our nat-
ural resources and our lives. In Washington, a
long way from the winds and the whitecaps, it
has been tempting to task the Coast Guard
with new and burdensome missions. Far too
tempting.
Historically, the Coast Guard has dis-
charged whatever duties it was assigned. As
a Service originally created in 1790 to regulate
maritime duties, its responsibilities have-ap-
propriately-grown with the changing needs
and technology of the times.
As co-chair of the House Coast Guard Cau-
cus, along with Representatives HOWARD
COBLE and GENE TAYLOR, I have had grave
doubts for a long time.
Most recently, much has been made of the
demands on the Coast Guard for work in the
area of illegal drug interdiction. As a former
prosecutor, I'm all for fighting the drug war
and have fully supported calling upon the
Coast Guard to step up its interdiction ef-
forts--but not at the expense of its core mis-
sion, the saving of human life.
We can't just wish away the costs, and I'm
not ready to start treating search-and-rescue
like a luxury we can do without-any more
than you can move cops off the beat, then
complain about street crime.
We have stretched the Cost Guard so thin
for so long that it can barely be expected to
fulfill its credo, Semper Paratus-"always pre-
pared". And there are scores of new missions
in the wings.
This year, the Coast Guard was the only
federal agency to earn an "A" from the inde-
pendent Government Performance Project for
operating with unusual efficiency and effective-
ness. That assessment placed the Coast
Guard at the very top of 20 Executive Branch
agencies because its "top-notch planning and
performance budgeting overcame short staff-
ing and fraying equipment."
It all came down, they concluded, to that
Curse of Can-Do. "The Coast Guard," they
said, "is a CAN-DO organization whose 'CAN'
is dwindling while its 'DO' is growing".
This can't continue. Not when the average
age of its deepwater cutters is 27 years old,
making this force the second oldest major
naval fleet on the globe. Not when fixed-wing
aircraft deployments have more than doubled,
and helicopter deployments are up more than
25 percent-without any increase in the num-
ber of aircraft, pilots or crews.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0954.txt

11350
Not when duty officers suffer chronic fatigue
because staffing constraints permit only four
hours of sleep at night. Not when the Com-
mandant testifies before Congress that there's
not enough fuel to power his boats and
planes.
And not when Coast Guard radio commu-
nications units are 30 years old, like the one
described in a recent news account that
began this way:
If you dial 911, say the word 'fire' and run
outside, a fire engine will show up at your
driveway. If you pick up the handset on your
VHF-FM radio, say the work 'Mayday' and
jump overboard, you could very well drown
or die of hypothermia.
Study after study has documented these
hazards. A recent Interagency Task Force
concluded that "block obsolescence . . . pre-
sents a threat that [the Coast Guard] could
soon be overwhelmed by a mismatch between
its missions and the quantity and quality of the
assets to carry them out."
A 1997 General Accounting Office review
was even more blunt. It projected $90 million
annual reductions in operating expenses just
to bridge the gap. GAO was alarmed by "the
sheer size of the gap and the dwindling num-
ber of available efficiency-related options."
Where I'm from, a marine distress call is an
urgent plea for emergency law enforcement
and rescue personnel. When oil spills jeop-
ardize economic as well as environmental re-
sources; when frozen rivers trap heating oil
barges; when the well-being of both fish and
fishermen are threatened; when offshore dan-
ger strikes, we know were to turn.
That's why when the ink dried on the House
DOT appropriation, there was reason for new
and genuine hope. Like having Pedro Martinez
in the starting rotation, it felt like this really
could be the year.
The DOT bill approved recently for next
year increases Coast Guard accounts by near-
ly $600 million, a 15 percent boost. It also in-
cludes $125 million to help modernize aging
airplanes, helicopters and motor lifeboats-'
and upgrade, rather than abandon, Coast
Guard stations and the communities they
serve.
Years from now, the 395 House colleagues
who voted for the DOT bill can look back and
take satisfaction from the knowledge that they
helped saved a life, a coastal community, an
international alliance-or maybe even a ma-
rine species or two.
But that old curse still hovers over the Coast
Guard. Just this week, the Senate Sub-
committee came in $200 million lower.
The timing could not be worse. The Senate
action followed two rounds of Coast Guard
cutbacks for the current fiscal year, reducing
cutter days and flight hours by 10 percent.
Why? Because the Coast Guard responded
to natural disasters, but the Congress failed to
pass emergency supplemental funding. And
because a variety of overdue personnel bene-
fits, for everything from housing to health care,
were mandated by the 2000 Defense Author-
ization-but with no money to pay for them.
There's more. The good news is a new ef-
fort, through the pending Military Construction
bill, to restore $800 million in supplemental
funding. But since only a third of that is des-
ignated as "emergency expenses," the base-

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
line for future Coast Guard budgets, next year
and beyond, would be seriously compromised.
So I express gratitude for the progress
made in this chamber thus far. But also to
raise a warning flag about the two challenges
immediately ahead.
Specifically, I urge my colleagues to hold
firm in conference on the House-approved al-
location in the Transportation Appropriation
bill. And then to recede to Senate conferees
regarding the $800 million in the MilCon
measure.
That's what it will take for the Coast Guard
to do the job we have assigned it to do. To
contain oil spills. To catch smugglers. And,
most important of all, to save lives.
CHINA PNTR
HON. WILLIAM M. THOMAS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 19, 2000
Mr. THOMAS. Mr. Speaker, we have re-
cently voted to establish permanent normal
trade relations with China, which I believe will
provide economic opportunities for us and fur-
ther advance reforms that will promote democ-
ratization and hopefully improve human rights
in that region.
China recently negotiated to become a
member of the World Trade Organization, a
union of 135 nations who will require China to
follow established trade rules. China has
agreed to lower tariffs and duties on many
products imported from foreign countries in-
cluding the United States. These lowered tar-
iffs will increase American exports, expand op-
portunities for our businesses, and create new
jobs. If we had not granted permanent normal
trade relations with China, we would have lost
these economic benefits to other countries
that would trade with China.
Increased trade with China will create new
jobs and stimulate the economy in my district.
Lowered tariffs will apply to California's Cen-
tral Valley agricultural products, such as al-
monds, oranges, grapes, and cotton. In a few
years, China will reduce its tariff on almonds
from 30 to 10 percent, on oranges from 40 to
12 percent, and on grapes from 40 to 13 per-
cent. China will also import millions of addi-
tional tons of cotton at a low duty. These low-
ered tariffs and duties will lead to lower prices
for Chinese citizens who will demand more
products, necessitating increased production
in the Valley. New agricultural jobs will support
this increased production.
We are already reaping abundant benefits
from trade with other countries. Since July of
1999, Kern County alone has shipped over
220,000 tons of cotton to Mexico. Production,
transportation, and marketing of cotton for
Mexico have generated numerous jobs in the
Central Valley. Because China's population is
significantly greater than that in the other
countries with whom we trade, the amount of
products we will export there will also be sig-
nificantly greater.
Not only will increased trade benefit our
economy, but it will also help further the ex-
pansion of freedoms in China. In any nation,
this process take times. Our own nation's his-

June 19, 2000
tory attests to this fact. The rights guaranteed
in our Constitution have not always been
granted to everyone. For example, slavery,
with all of its abuses, we practiced for 78
years after the ratification of the Constitution.
Eighty-three years after the Constitution, the
Fifteenth Amendment theoretically granted suf-
frage to all people, regardless of "race, color,
or previous condition of servitude," but these
rights continued to be denied to people of
color. Our country progressed over time to ex-
pand and guarantee equal protection of rights
under the law.
Just as the expansion of freedoms has pro-
gressed over time throughout the history of
the United States, so it will take time for China
to extend more freedoms to its citizens. China
is just starting the process we have been pur-
suing for over two centuries, and they are in
a different situation than was the United
States at its foundation. Chinese leaders do
not regard the individual as, in the words of
our Declaration of Independence, "endowed
by their Creator with certain unalienable
Rights." Their government does not derive its
"just Power from the Consent of the Gov-
erned." The Chinese have still to develop a
real understanding of the value of the indi-
vidual.
Communist Party control over the financial
future of Chinese citizens is weakening. Mil-
lions of people are migrating away from state-
owned enterprises to work in private busi-
nesses. At these businesses, they experience
improved working conditions and higher
wages. They are less dependent on the gov-
ernment, can make their own choices, and
thereby have more personal control over their
lives. As this movement into the private sector
continues, more people will come to expect
and demand the reforms necessary to guar-
antee individual rights.
Exposure to international trade rules will en-
able the Chinese to appreciate establishing
rule of law within their country. Increased
trade with all nations will acquaint Chinese citi-
zens with innovation and new technology from
sources outside their government. These
ideas will increase their awareness of the
rights and freedoms to which they are entitled.
Chinese citizens may in time pressure their
leaders for reforms that will guarantee these
rights and freedoms. Our trade relations will
allow us to support the Chinese people if they
choose to push for these reforms.
For all of these reasons, I am pleased that
the House has voted for permanent normal
trade relations with China. The bill is now in
the Senate, where I am hopeful it will pass so
that the United States and China together can
secure the benefits of a more open trade rela-
tionship.
TRIBUTE TO MATT LINWONG
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 19, 2000
Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I rise before
you today to commend Matt Linwong, a fresh-
man at Mt. Vernon Township High School in
Mt. Vernon, IL, for his academic achievement.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0955.txt

June 19, 2000
He recently scored a perfect 800 in English on
the SAT and a near perfect 750 in math.
As a result, Matt has been accepted to the
Illinois Math and Science Academy in Aurora,
IL, which is a school for 10th-12th grade Illi-
nois students who excel in mathematics and
science. I want to wish Matt the best as he
begins this new chapter in his life. He is an
amazing young student who I know will go far
and do great things.
DEPARTMENTS          OF     LABOR,
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,
AND EDUCATION, AND RELATED
AGENCIES        APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2001
SPEECH OF
HON. NANCY L. JOHNSON
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 15, 2000
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the State of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 4577) making ap-
propriations for the Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Education,
and related agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2001, and for other pur-
poses:
Mrs. JOHNSON of Connecticut. Mr. Chair-
man, I rise today to urge my colleagues to
vote to move this bill forward but also to ex-
press my concerns about what I consider to
be seriously inadequate funding levels for edu-
cation, health, and job training.
Chairman JOHN PORTER did an admirable
job constructing this bill considering the dif-
ficult 302(B) allocation he was given in the
budget resolution. I opposed that resolution
because it inadequately funded so many
agencies. But as in years past, the Senate
has more generous subcommittee allocations
and therefore will fund many programs at
higher levels than the House. Furthermore, the
President has consistently advocated higher
spending levels, though he has funded them
through unacceptable taxes and cuts in key
programs that members of both parties reject.
Hence, as this bill moves through the process
of Senate consideration and then the House-
Senate conference, allocation levels will rise to
what I believe will be sound funding levels ap-
propriately funded. Therefore I vote in favor of
this bill to move it forward in the process. I
would note that last year's House Labor-HHS
proposal provided only $35.6 billion for edu-
cation programs while the President proposed
a total of $37.1 billion. Ultimately, the process
produced a bill that provided $38 billion for
education and tied to that level of funding was
greater flexibility so communities could meet
their own needs. I have no doubt the same re-
sult will occur again this year which is why I
am willing to put aside my concerns with this
specific bill and move this legislation forward.
H.R. 4577 provides funding increases for a
number of programs of importance, including
many health initiatives. I am very proud that
Chairman PORTER has targeted community
health centers for support as these facilities
are the only source of affordable health care
in many neighborhoods. Helping people se-

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
cure health insurance should be a priority for
this Congress, but that health insurance will
not be helpful unless people have a medical
facility they can use. The House proposal in-
creases funding by $81.3 million, $31 million
more than the President's request.
This legislation also provides critical funding
increases for programs that help communities
provide HIV/AIDS education and prevention
services. We must be vigilant in our battle
against the spread of this disease. H.R. 4577
provides $130 million for the Ryan White AIDS
Prevention and Education programs, $5 million
above the President's request.
In some cases, our bill is far more generous
than the Senate. The House provides $86 mil-
lion more than the Senate and $156 million
more than the President for the Centers for
Disease Control. While we were not able to
provide the full 15% increase previously
agreed to for NIH, Chairman PORTER's bill
does increase funding by 5%, the same as the
President requested. Chairman PORTER also
has made a commitment to work toward the
full 15% increase in conference with the Sen-
ate. The House bill is also much more gen-
erous to SAMHSA providing $50 million more
than the Senate, a $60 million increase over
last year. SAMHSA funding is critical to help-
ing deliver substance abuse and mental health
services to communities.
JOB TRAINING/WELFARE
While I am very happy to see an increase
in funding for Job Corps programs, residential
facilities that provide job training, placement
and support services to at-risk youth, I am
deeply concerned about funding cuts to many
of our other job training programs. While the
economy is experiencing its highest rates of
growth in our history and unemployment and
welfare rolls are at an all time low, job training
is more important than ever. Many families
moving off public assistance can only become
economically independent and secure with
help to develop their skills and to win their bat-
tles against addiction. They urgently need
these job training programs if they are going
to successfully transition off of welfare. The
cuts to the one-stop career centers as well as
WIA adult training grants are both going to un-
dermine our effort to move families off of wel-
fare and to help low wage workers move up
the skill and wage ladder. I urge my col-
leagues to visit a one step center in their dis-
trict to see how effective they are.
Another area of great concern is the under-
funding of the Social Services Block Grant,
used by states to fill funding gaps in their so-
cial welfare programs. States use SSBG to
fund domestic violence shelters, adoption
services, meals-on-wheels, elderly and dis-
abled services and child and adult protective
services to name a few. During the debate
over welfare reform, Congress guaranteed the
states that it would fund SSBG at $2.38 billion
and that states could transfer 10% of their
TANF dollars into SSBG to develop the sup-
port network necessary to families in transition
from dependence to independence. However,
to pay for last year's transportation bill,
SSBG's authorization was cut to $1.7 billion
and the transfer was reduced to 4.25%. While
the level is lower than that I advocate for in
my legislation, H.R. 4481, the House actually
funded SSBG at its new authorization level of

11351
$1.7 billion. The Senate however cuts the pro-
gram by $1.1 billion to $600 million. A cut of
this magnitude will be devastating to the com-
munity organizations that serve some of our
most needy constituents. I urge my colleagues
to restore full funding to $2.38 billion and the
transfer to 10%.
EDUCATION
The House proposal provides additional re-
sources to many important education pro-
grams but its failure to increase the allocation
for Title I should be of concern to all Mem-
bers. Both the President and the Senate pro-
vided increases which would enable us to
reach as many as 260,000 more children. Fur-
ther, H.R. 4577 would fund the Teacher Em-
powerment Act, a block grant of the Eisen-
hower Professional Development program,
Goals 2000 and the President's class-size re-
duction program, at $1.75 billion instead of the
proposed $2 billion authorization level. If Re-
publicans are going to advocate for block
granting similar pots of money-which I sup-
port-we must adequately fund the whole. As
we have seen with TANF, Congress must
abide by our promises and fully fund these
programs if the new flexibility granted is to
matter to kids, teachers and taxpayers. This
cut of $300 million sets a very dangerous
precedent for those who strongly support
block grants and I hope my colleagues will re-
consider this funding level.
However, there are many programs which
received increased funding from the Com-
mittee. The bill increases the average Pell
Grant to $3,500, its highest level in history.
Republicans have increased the Pell Grant,
which saw cuts when the Democrats con-
trolled both the White House and the Con-
gress, by $1,200, or 50% since assuming the
majority in 1995. Further, while the bill doesn't
provide the additional $2 billion in funding
agreed to by the House for IDEA, it does in-
crease funding by $500 million. If there is one
program that comes up in every meeting I
have had with teachers and administrators in
my district, it is IDEA. The increase of $500
million is a step in the right direction. I also
applaud the Head Start increase of $400 mil-
lion or 7.5% and the TRIO program increase
of an additional $115 million over FY00.
Given the challenge presented to the com-
mittee by the budget resolution, they did a
commendable job on this bill. However, many
of its funding levels are inadequate and must
grow through the process or I will vote against
sending this bill to the President. Again, I will
support this proposal because I believe that in
the end we will have a bill that reflects our pri-
orities--education, health care, and job train-
ing.
DEPARTMENT      OF THE    INTERIOR
AND RELATED AGENCIES APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2001
SPEECH OF
HON. RON LEWIS
OF KENTPUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 14, 2000
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the State of the Union had under



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0956.txt

11352
consideration the bill (H.R. 4578) making ap-
propriations for the Department of the Inte-
rior and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2001, and for other pur-
poses:
Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky. Mr. Chairman, I
move to strike the last word and rise to sup-
port this amendment that helps provide for our
states and local communities.
While I support all the funding increases in
this amendment, the increase in the Payment
in Lieu of Taxes program is of particular inter-
est. Last year, we approved an amendment to
increase PILT by twenty million dollars and
came out of conference with a ten million dol-
lar increase. This amendment will add ten mil-
lion dollars to last year's appropriation, the
base amount in this legislation.
The federal government has a responsibility
in law to help support local governments in
areas where the federal government owns the
land, thus removing it from the local tax base.
We all know, despite the hard work and tough
decisions  of Chairman  REGULA'S  sub-
committee, that appropriations for PILT have
not kept up with the authorized amounts. An
increase of ten million dollars will not close
this gap, but it will provide much-needed as-
sistance to local governments.
For the residents and government of
Edmonson County in my district in Kentucky,
the support from PILT is essential. Edmonson
County is home to Mammoth Cave National
Park. While the park draws many visitors to
this rural area, Edmonson County's small pop-
ulation and low per capita income make it dif-
ficult for local taxpayers to provide basic serv-
ices, from waste management to emergency
services. The support from an increase in
PILT will keep the cost of these services more
bearable to local taxpayers.
PILT funds help support a 24-hour ambu-
lance service for the National Park and county
residents. Federal land ownership has contrib-
uted to the isolation of much of Edmonson
County. When major transportation routes ex-
panded in the past, the county was bypassed
in favor of areas with a larger property tax
base to support the projects. Equitable PILT
payments are needed to add to the tax base
Edmonson County has given up for the Na-
tional Park as the area faces new challenges
for economic development.
The situation faced by Edmonson County is
far from unique. As the federal government
continues to place responsibilities on local
governments, PILT increases are necessary to
relieve local taxpayers across the country,
most of them in rural areas. The Bureau of
Land Management reports property taxes
would provide local governments with one dol-
lar and forty-eight cents per acre. PILT pay-
ments are far below that amount per acre. It
is difficult to explain to constituents why PILT
appropriations have not followed the amounts
authorized when they have not even come
close. It is difficult to explain why Congress
creates new programs when we are not fund-
ing the ones already in existence.
I strongly urge my colleagues to support this
amendment. By doing so you add $10 million
dollars to PILT to aid local taxpayers in rural
areas and fulfill a pledge made by the federal
government.

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
COMMENDING THE T.C. WILLIAMS
HIGH SCHOOL CREW TEAM
HON. JAMES P. MORAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 19, 2000
Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, today
I commend the Women's Lightweight Eight
Crew of T.C. Williams High School in Alexan-
dria, VA, for their fine season this spring. The
T.C. lightweight crew captured gold medals at
the Virginia State Championships, the pres-
tigious Stotesbury Cup Regatta in Philadel-
phia, and the Scholastic Rowing Association
of America championship. They followed these
triumphs with a silver medal at the Canadian
Secondary Rowing Association Championship
at St. Catherine's, Ontario.
Their success this year continues a tradition
of strong lightweight rowing at T.C. Williams
High School. The Women's Eight has cap-
tured gold medals at Stotesbury and the Scho-
lastic Rowing Association for three of the last
four years.
This lightweight crew excels not only athlet-
ically but in their academic work as well. The
crew has a collective grade point average that
is close to 4.0. Crew members are: Jo Beck,
Mary Higgins, Carter Kidd, Riley McDonald,
Janie Roden, Kaitlin Donley, Catherine Free-
man, Anna Gullickson, and Clare McIntyre.
The coach of the Women's Lightweight
Eight, Steve Weir, completed his 25th year
coaching women at T.C. Steve has had unpar-
alleled success, winning the Stotesbury Cup
for lightweights 12 out of 18 attempts. Parents
of the girls who row for Steve say that he has
had a major impact on their lives both athlet-
ically and in other aspects through the exam-
ple of his integrity and devotion to excellence.
I am very proud of Steve Weir and his fine
crew.
IN HONOR OF NAOMI GRAY
HON. NANCY PELOSI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 19, 2000
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I rise to acknowl-
edge Naomi Gray's contributions to the Citi-
zens' Advisory Commission to the Golden
Gate National Recreation Area and Point
Reyes National Seashore as she steps down
after nearly six years of service. Ms. Gray has
been a consistent leader in the fight to make
our National Parks a treasure for all of our citi-
zens. Throughout her entire illustrious career,
she has sought to make our world more just,
and it is my honor to commend this dedicated
San Franciscan.
Naomi Gray served as one of the original
members of the Board of Directors of the Fort
Mason Foundation, which oversees one of the
first urban National Parks in the country. On
the Board, Naomi consistently worked to en-
sure that the Center offered programs and
services of interest to persons from a wide va-
riety of cultural backgrounds.
Because of her outstanding service at the
Forest Mason Foundation and her years of

June 19, 2000
dedicated community activism, Secretary of
the Interior Bruce Babbitt selected Naomi in
1994 to sit on the Citizens' Advisory Commis-
sion to the Golden Gate National Recreation
Area and Point Reyes National Seashore. On
this commission, she served as chair of the
Diversity Committee and as a member of the
Presidio Committee. She brought to the Com-
mission a concern for how our National Parks
are perceived and how they can be made
more welcoming to minority communities. Her
work helped to open the Golden Gate National
Recreation Area to all of our citizens.
Naomi's work on the Citizens' Advisory
Commission is just one of her many activities
in public service. She has worked much of her
life to advance the cause of public health.
After serving as the Director of Field Services
for the Planned Parenthood Federation of
America, she became the first women Vice-
President of the organization. With Planned
Parenthood, she coordinated the work of more
than 250 family planning affiliates in the
United States and consulted with many inter-
national family planning programs.
In 1985, San Francisco established its first
Health Commission, and Naomi was selected
as a founding member. Naomi became a Vice-
President of the Commission, chaired its
Budget Committee, and worked to strengthen
and improve the Department of Public Health's
Affirmative Action programs. Her service was
so exemplary that, upon her retirement from
the Commission, Mayor Frank Jordan was
moved to declare October 8, 1992, as "Naomi
Gray Day" in San Francisco.
Ms. Gray has also dedicated her significant
talent and energy to working on issues of im-
portance to the African-American community.
In 1991 she helped establish the Sojourner
Truth Foster Family Service Agency to care
for African-American foster children and later
founded the Urban Institute for African-Amer-
ican Affairs. She is the founder of the Black
Coalition on AIDS, a member of the Black
Chamber of Commerce, a member and past
President of the San Francisco Black Leader-
ship Forum, and has served on San Fran-
cisco's African-American Child Task Force.
Mr. Speaker, Naomi Gray's thoughtful con-
tributions to the Citizens' Advisory Commis-
sion will be sorely missed. Undoubtedly, how-
ever, she will continue her work on behalf of
the people of San Francisco in a new forum
and with renewed energy. She is a tireless
fighter, and our City is fortunate to have her.
I wish her all of the best.
TRIBUTE TO NADIA SHAKOOR
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 19, 2000
Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I rise before
you today to commend Nadia Shakoor of
Springfield, IL for being selected as a finalist
in the Intel International Science and Engi-
neering Fair. She was one of 1,200 students
from over 40 countries who traveled to Detroit,
MI to compete for more than $2 million in
awards and scholarships.
As a teacher myself, I want to recognize
Nadia for her academic achievement. Her suc-
cess has not come without hard work though.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0957.txt

June 19, 2000
I applaud her for her motivation and desire to
learn and grow.
I wish Nadia the best as she continues her
education. I know success will follow her
wherever she may go.
DEPARTMENT        OF  THE    INTERIOR
AND RELATED AGENCIES APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2001
SPEECH OF
HON. MARK GREEN
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, June 15, 2000
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the State of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 4578) making ap-
propriations for the Department of the Inte-
rior and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2001, and for other pur-
poses:
Mr. GREEN of Wisconsin. Mr. Chairman, I
submit the  following  resolutions for the
RECORD.
Whereas, our National Forests were estab-
lished in the 1920's for multiple use including
soil and water protection, recreation, and
timber production, and;
Whereas, harvesting is an integral compo-
nent of multiple-use management of forest
lands, and;
Whereas, it is not in the best interest of
sustainable ecosystem management to ban
commercial logging on National Forests,
and;
Whereas, the health of adjoining private
and other public forest lands would be in
jeopardy if National Forest lands were al-
lowed to become overstocked and subject to
insect and disease infestations, and unneces-
sary fuel build-up were allowed to create the
potential for disastrous wild fires, and;
Whereas, timber harvested on the National
Forests is vital to many local and regional
economies, including that of Vilas County,
and;
Whereas, Whereas, Wisconsin's National
Forests are not producing below cost timber
sales and are not virgin forests, and;
Whereas, there would be an increase in
pressure to harvest County Forest Lands and
private lands in the area if harvesting ceases
on the National Forests within the state,
and;
Whereas, the State Forester of Wisconsin
Is also opposed to the halting of commercial
logging un National Forests.
Now, therefore, be it resolved, That the Vilas
County Board of Supervisors is opposed to
the National Forest Restoration Act and
other legislative proposals which propose
halting commercial logging on the National
Forests.
Be it further resolved, That copies of this
resolution be forwarded to the Governor, to
Wisconsin's Representatives and Senators in
the United States Congress, George Meyer,
Secretary of the Department of Natural Re-
sources, Gene Francisco, State Forester, the
Wisconsin County Forests Association, and
the President of the United States.
Respectfully submitted by: Vilas County
Forestry, Recreation, & Land Committee.
RESOLUTION No. 14-00
Whereas, the counties of Wisconsin support
sound forest management policies, which as-

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
sure that the National Forests of Wisconsin
are available for multiple uses such as recre-
ation, logging, and the protection of wildlife,
and
Whereas, when the Federal Government
created the Chequamegon and Nicolet Na-
tional Forests, they promised the forests
would be made available for multiple uses by
the people of Wisconsin and
Whereas, President Clinton and the Na-
tional Forest Service have recently proposed
the Roadless initiative, which would place up
to  74,000  acres  of  the  Nicolet  and
Chequamegon Forests of limits to logging
and motorized recreation, and
Whereas, This program, along with other
restrictions already placed on the national
Forests will have an adverse effect on the
economy of the entire state, and
Whereas, the Board of Directors of the Wis-
consin Counties Association (WCA), have
unanimously passed a resolution stating ve-
hement opposition to the Roadless plan, and
Whereas, the National Forest Service is
currently revising its Land and Resource
Management Plan, which could place even
more restrictions on use and access of the
National Forests, and
Whereas, the National Forest Resource
Committee, made up of concerned parties
from around the Great Lakes Region, led by
WCA and including logging companies, recre-
ation enthusiasts, policy makers and others,
has been formed to fight against further re-
strictions on use of the National Forests.
Therefore be it resolved, That the Oconto
County Board of supervisors does hereby:
1. Oppose programs such as the Roadless
Initiative that place unwanted and unneces-
sary restrictions on use and access of the Na-
tional Forests, and
2. Advocate a new Land and Resource Man-
agement Plan which would rollback several
costly, unnecessary restrictions on National
Forest use and access, and
3. Support the efforts of the National For-
est Resource Committee in its fight to en-
sure that such goals are met.
Be it further resolved, That a copy of this
resolution be forwarded to the Wisconsin
Counties Association, the Governor, the U.S.
Congressman who represents Oconto County,
and U.S. Senators Russ Feingold and Herb
Kohl.
RESOLUTION
Whereas, the counties of Wisconsin support
sound forest management policies, which as-
sure that the National Forests of Wisconsin
are available for multiple uses such as recre-
ation, logging, and the protection of wildlife;
and
Whereas, when the Federal Government
created the Chequamegon and Nicolet Na-
tional forests, they promised the forests
would be made available for multiple uses by
the people of Wisconsin; and
Whereas, President Clinton and the Na-
tional Forest Service have recently proposed
the Roadless Initiative, which would place
up to 74,000 acres of the Nicolet and
Chequamegon Forests off-limit to logging
and motorized recreation; and
Whereas, this program, along with other
restrictions already placed on the National
Forests, will have an adverse effect on the
economy of the entire state; and
Whereas, the Board of Directors of the Wis-
consin Counties Association (WCA), have
unanimously passed a resolution stating ve-
hement opposition to the Roadless Plan: and
Whereas, the National Forest Service is
currently revising its Land and Resource
Management Plan, which could place even

11353
more restrictions on use and access of the
National Forests; and
Whereas, the National Forest Resource
Committee, made up of concerned parties
from around the Great Lakes Region, led by
WCA and including logging companies, recre-
ation enthusiasts, policy-makers and others,
has been formed to fight against further re-
strictions on use of the National Forests.
Now, therefore, be it resolved, That the For-
est County Board of Supervisors does hereby:
1. adamantly oppose programs such as the
Roadless Initiative that place unwanted and
unnecessary restrictions on use and access of
the National Forest use and access; and
2. advocate a new Land and Resources
Management Plan which would roll back
several costly, unnecessary restrictions on
National Forest use and access; and
3. support the efforts of the National For-
est Resource Committee in its fight to en-
sure that such goals are met.
Be it further resolved, that a copy of this
resolution be forwarded to the Wisconsin
Counties Association, the Governor, Con-
gressman Mark Green, and U.S. Senators
Russ Feingold and Herb Kohl.
RESOLUTION
Whereas, the United States Forest Service
is in the process of developing their Forest
Plan Revision with respect to the Ten Year
Plan for use of the Nicolet National Forest;
and
Whereas, a significant portion of all man-
agement alternatives proposed for the na-
tional forest land based in Forest County is
allocated for research and restrictive use in
all of the alternatives of the plan that are
presently being developed; and
Whereas, the Forest County economy and
recreational activities depend upon use of
the national forest; and
Whereas, the proposed Ten Year Plan will
result in more land going into restrictive
use, non-motorized use, of wilderness areas;
and
Whereas, Forest County objects to the al-
location of any more land going into such
limited uses; and
Whereas, heretofore, when land was pur-
chased from Forest County by the Forest
Service, it was represented by said Forest
Service that the land to be purchased was to
be utilized for timber production as well as
other multiple uses. The proposed Ten Year
Plan varies considerably from such represen-
tations; and
Whereas, Florence County has adopted a
similar Resolution objecting to the present
revisions of the Nicolet Forest Ten Year
Plan; and
Whereas, it is appropriate for the Forest
County Board of Supervisors to object to the
proposed revisions in the Ten Year Plan with
respect to the Nicolet National Forest.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Forest
County Board of Supervisors, That said Board
strenuously objects to any land under Fed-
eral ownership being used for anything other
than multiple use and management for tim-
ber production.
Be it further resolved, That a true and cor-
rect copy of this Resolution, upon its adop-
tion, shall be forwarded by the County Clerk
to appropriate representatives of the United
States Forest Service so that Forest Coun-
ty's position on the matter can be made
known.
RESOLUTION No. 41-2000
Whereas, the Nicolet and Chequamegon
National Forests are two large public forests



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0958.txt
