ers' Club, Senior Citizens' Club, family serv-
ices counseling, surplus food distribution,
health education lectures, and physical fit-
ness to name but a few. New programs are
constantly being added as the needs become
known. Mrs. Mary Houston is the Marion
Center director.
SCREENING CLINIC
The Arnold T. Johnson Multiphasic Medi-
cal Screening Clinic started operating a little
over a year ago, and in eleven months, over
600 individuals have received a variety of
medical tests such as tests for diabetes,
glacouma, hearing, tuberculosis, blood pres-
sure, cholesterol, and others. The primary
purpose of the clinic Is the early detection of
chronic diseases. Of those tested, a number
of suspected diseases have been found. Those
taking part In the program are asked for a
$1.00 donation if they can afford it.
Whirlpool and Eaton were instrumental in
developing this clinic. The doctors and nurses
who participate in the program donate their
time. Helen Geckle, a full-time R.N. assigned
to the clinic, is the only paid employee and
her salary comes from the State Department
of Health, through the Marion County Health
Department. Any clients with suspected cases
of a disease are referred to local doctors. Over
50 cases of suspected tuberculosis have been
referred to the Public Health Office and 41
people were found to be diabetic, 107 were
found to have high blood pressure and 256
were found to be either overweight or under-
weight.
Manpower Coordinator, Jack Brown, works
in both Marion and Crawford counties. His
job is to counsel with low income people and
attempt to place them in various industries
and social agencies. He works with senior
citizen groups in the Marion and Crawford
Centers in developing small businesses which

provide a little extra income for those on
retirement. At the present time, 20 different
articles are being made for sale by the Craw-
ford County Senior Citizens Group.
TONS OF FOOD DISTRIBUTED
The food and aging co-ordinator for the
Commission is Cara Hewetson and last year
she co-ordinated the distribution of over 341
tons of food. The food, basically cereal foods
donated by Quaker Oats, went to over 600
families In the two-county area, representing
2,500 hungry people. The wholesale cost of
food distributed in the two counties was
$40,000. Some of the food is also distributed
through Community Action Centers outside
of the two-county area. The food and aging
co-ordinator also works with senior citizen
groups in both communities. The senior
citizens, often called the forgotten group,
living on a fixed income find that making
items for bazaars and other fund-raising
projects is a good way to supplement their
various programs. Activities for the senior
cltlzens now being planned include a trip
to the Ohio State Fair and a senior citizens'
forum to be held May 7 in Marion.
HOUSING PROBLEMS TACKLED
Housing in Marion has been critical for
several years. A little over one year ago, a
housing specialist, John Mills, was hired by
the Commission. Mr. Mills works with city
and county goverpments to help them be-
come more aware of state and federal hous-
ing programs that are available and to help
them In securing funds. A Marion County
Housing Advisory Council has been estab-
lished to help review the housing needs for
our community. This 15-member committee
reviews the situations and problems and
then suggests solutions for housing needs.
This council recommended the Jaycees to be
the non-profit organization sponsoring the
Fairview housing development.
A Crawford Metropolitan Housing Author-
ity was developed last December to qualify
for federal housing funds. This group is used
to get the quality of housing up to standard.
They can rehabilitate houses and lease them
back to low income families, Or order the
demolition of houses which are unsafe and
beyond repair. Through the housing author-
ity, slum areas can be cleared and better
housing provided. It is hoped that Marion
County, like Crawford County, can develop
a housing authority.
The Neighborhood Youth Corps, now in Its



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1207.txt

June 22, 1970
fourth year, was set up to recruit young peo-
ple from low income areas and to place them
in jobs throughout our community. Their
work assignments range from custodial to
clerical, to teachers aids, to airport aids. This
summer, 90 high school young people will be
placed on jobs throughout the community.
They will not only be working in industries
(like our Job Opportunities for Youth [JOY]
program) but in schools, the Red Cross, the
Recreation Department, hospitals and in
City Hall. Through this meaningful work,
the young people gain job experience and
learn to work with other people, thus help-
ing to close the generation gap.
HEAD START IN SIXTH YEAR
One final area of activity for the MCCAC
is that of the Summer Head Start Program.
This summer, approximately 120 youngsters
in Marion will be participating in the pro-
gram. Darl Gatchell of the Marion City
Schools, will be coordinating this program
which provides many medical and dental
services as well as psychological tests and
some academic training. The City Schools
have operated the Head Start Program for six
years.
Don Shanahan, Executive director, sum-
marized that the activity of the Commission
is not welfare. It is helping the low income
people of our community learn to help and
support themselves.
PRIVATE PROFIT OR PUBLIC GOOD:
WHAT THE PRIVATE UTILITIES
REALLY WANT
HON. WILLIAM D. HATHAWAY
OF MAINE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 22, 1970
Mr. HATHAWAY. Mr. Speaker, a
front page article in the June 21 Wash-
ington Post accurately suggests that the
onus for steadily    worsening   electric
power conditions in the United States
belongs almost exclusively to investor-
owned utilities, which in the face of in-
creased consumer demand for their im-
portant product, have blindly empha-
sized power sales over power supply and
reliability. In so doing, they have put
profit before the public good.
This week, the Members of this House
will vote on an issue that could help
make the private electric utilities face up
to their public responsibilities-appro-
priation of $807,000 requested by the ad-
ministration for continued preconstruc-
tion planning of the proposed Dickey-
Lincoln School hydroelectric power proj-
ect in northern Maine.
The proposal's potential is great, and
includes, among     other   things, the
promise of a 1.9-to-1 benefit-to-cost
ratio and a number of impressive en-
vironmental and recreational uses. But
perhaps most significant--certainly most
worrisome to its detractors-would be its
provision of a so-called power yardstick.
This is the measurement by which pri-
vate power consumers in the New Eng-
land and adjacent areas would be made
aware of the disparity between private
and public prices. It would help keep
private power prices at a more reason-
able level. It could prove to be both a
potent consumer weapon in the hands of
millions of deserving northeasterners,

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
and a very large thorn in the side of
private power producers.
Currently, power consumers in New
England pay the highest rates in the
country for what may well be the least
reliable    electricity   anywhere.     The
Dickey-Lincoln     yardstick    is   clearly
needed. I urge my colleagues to help pro-
vide it.
The Washington Post article follows:
U.S. AGENCIES CUT USE OF POWER IN FACE OF
EXPECTED SHORTAGES
The giant wind tunnel at the space
agency's Langley Research Center and the
huge drydock pumps at the Norfolk Naval
Station will be run only at night this
summer.
Further to the west, the Atomic Energy
Commission's mammoth diffusion plants at
Paducah, Ky., and Portsmouth, Ohio, will
cut their production of enriched uranium
this summer by more than 10 per cent, a
move that's expected to save more than 300,-
000 kilowatts of power.
In Washington, the Veterans' Administra-
tion is replacing manual switches with timers
that automatically turn off the office lights
at the end of the day, and the Pentagon has
issued an order for all base commanders on
the East Coast to turn off the barracks air
conditioning during the daylight hours when
most of their men are on duty.
These attempts to save electricity are all
parts of a government drive to conserve power
this summer, which electricity experts across
the country think of as the greatest period
of crisis in their industry since Thomas Edi-
son lit the first lamps in New York in 1882.
"We're producing more electricity than at
any time in our history," says S. David Free-
man, director of energy policy at the White
House Office of Science and Technology, "but
we have a runaway market in energy. It seems
that everybody in the country wants more
electricity."
The nation generates more than 325 mil-
lion kilowatts of electricity, but it now con-
sumes almost two trillion kilowatt-hours a
year-a classic case of demand that is taxing
the capacity of the country's power com-
panies right to the limit.
The Federal Power Commission estimates
that 39 of the nation's 181 largest utilities
are short of electricity, a condition that is at
least partly to blame for the nine power
failures that have already hit the country
since May 1.
The Office of Emergency Preparedness went
so far last month as to call conditions in the
East and Midwest "tight," and cited as "po-
tential electrical trouble spots" the cities of
New York, St. Louis, Chicago and Minneap-
olis. Jacksonville, Fla., was also mentioned.
While utility executives in these cities
played down such warnings, at least one of
them admitted that things are too close for
comfort.
"There's a good chance we'll get through
the summer without having to reduce or re-
ject load," said D. W. Angland, group vice
president of the Northern States Power Co.
in Minneapolis, "but only if the weather
isn't too hot and we don't have any break-
downs."
How did It happen? How did the world's
most abundant producer of cheap electricity
come on such hard times?
To begin with, it wasn't sudden. Power
shortages began cropping up in 1965. There
were eight summer power failures in 1966,
23 in 1967, 28 In 1968 and 34 a year ago,
all of them helped along by a widening power
shortage.
One reason for the shortage is that utilities
underestimated the growth in demand. For
years electrical usage grew at an unwaver-
ing 3 per cent a year, but in 1965 it jumped
to 5 per cent. It was 5 per cent in 1966 and

20855
again in 1967 and then leaped to 9 percent in
1968 and almost 10 per cent last year.
"The economy was partly to blame, since
it kept exceeding everybody's expectations,"
Is the way it's put by the White House's
Freeman, "but there are other reasons, like
the widespread acceptance of electrical appli-
ances and air conditioners that utilities
should have beer- able to forecast. If we get
brownouts this summer because too many
air conditioners are in use, we may be wit-
nessing the victory of utility sales depart-
ments over their production departments."
Experts believe utilities badly underesti-
mated the growth of two industries that use
vast amounts of electricity-light metals and
electronic computers.
The Federal Power Commission says that
magnesium and aluminum production is in-
creasing in the United States at a rate of
about 10 per cent a year, and since the plants
that make these metals operate 24 hours a
day they consume huge amounts of power. A
new aluminum plant near Fredericksburg,
Va., uses 100,000 kilowatts of power, enough
for a city of 50,000 people.
COMPUTERS PLAY ROLE
Computers are something else. There are
now more than 60,000 computers in use
throughout the U.S., 10 times as many as
there were 10 years ago. The big computers
need three times as much electricity as a
residential house, and must also be kept In
air conditioned rooms.
"A human being goes right on working in
90 degree heat," said one computer expert,
"but a computer quits right there."
Possibly the biggest mistake utilities made
was in their estimates of air conditioning
growth.
There are now almost 40 million room air
conditioners in use in the U.S., a phe-
nomenon responsible for as much as 40 per
cent of electrical use on a hot summer's day.
"Ten years ago, peak load was always the
week before Christmas," says Sol Burstein,
senior vice president of Wisconsin Electric
Power Co. "Now the high loads are in the
summer, with peaks running for four months
instead of one week. If there are storms
during this time we have a real bear by the
tail."
Most utilities in the Northeast no longer
advertise air conditioning, but an irony of
it all is that they still promote all-electric
living and things like outdoor appliances at
a very time when they're straining to meet
the summer's demands.
Another problem has been the trouble
utilties have had getting new generators into
production, trouble that ranges from a short-
age of skilled construction labor to the
growing fight by conservationists to halt
power plant construction because they pol-
lute the air and water.
CONSERVATIONISTS BLAMED
Utilities see the conservationists as their
toughest adversary and blame them for elec-
tric power shortages in Florida, California,
New York, Illinois, Michigan and Minnesota.
Northern States Power claims that it would
not be in such dire straits if its nuclear
power plant on Monticello Island outside
Minneapolis had not been held up in court
by conservationists who want to put it under
stricter controls for radiation discharge.
As it turns out, says vice president D. W.
Angland, the company must now buy 325,000
kilowatts of power from the Bureau of Recla-
mation, the Upper Mississippi Valley Power
Pool and the Manitoba Hydroelectric Board
in Canada if it is to get safely through the
summer.
. Atomic power plants aren't the only ones
under conservationist attack. Southern Cali-
fornia Edison was forced to abandon plans to
install two gas-burning plants at Huntington
Beach, and North Carolina's Duke Power Co.
recently turned to low-sulphur oil for fuel in



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1208.txt

20856

some of its plants, a move that is forcing a
rate increase of almost 20 per cent.
There seems little doubt that there is an
electricity shortage in the country, but power
experts claim this summer's shortage is only
the beginning of an ever-worsening crisis.
The reason they believe it will get worse is
that the nation is short of the sources of
electrical energy, the coal, oil and gas that is
burned by power companies to create steam
and spin the turbines that power the genera-
tors.
The coal shortage is the worst, partly be-
cauise utilities burn so much (more than half
the coal mined in the U.S.) of it. Power com-
pany coal stocks are now less than 50 million
tons, down from 55 million tons a year ago
and about two-thirds as much coal as they
would like to have on hand.
FEWER MINES OPERATING
The reasons for the coal shortage are many,
starting with the notion that atomic energy
was oversold to the nation's businessmen in
the past decade. The result was that coal
mine operators underestimated coal demand
and are down today to less than 6,000 operat-
Ing coal mines from 7,600 as recently as 1964.
A second reason is the Coal Mine Safety
Act passed last year by Congress, a bill that
many coal mine owners claim will close some
mines.
If anything, coal supplies are likely to
dwindle still further as the summer's heat
takes its toll.
The Tennessee Valley Authority says that
a shortage of railroad cars is causing a lag in
Its coal deliveries of up to 150,000 tons a week.
One TVA plant has a coal supply of only six
days, and when a TVA official asked the rail-
road to step up deliveries he was told that
the railroad couldn't do so because it was
unprofitable to haul coal.
In the next 20 years, the crisis Is likely to
worsen.
The White House Office of Science and
Technology estimates that 255 new sites will
have to be found for power plants if future
power demands are to be met.
The money alone needed to finance future
growth is staggering. Utility experts figure it
will cost as much as $350 billion to construct
enough new plants to produce the 1.1 billion
kilowatts the U.S. will need by 1990, an ex-
pansion that will require enough transmis-
sion lines to circle the earth four times.
AN EDUCATOR SPEAKS OUT
HON. DON H. CLAUSEN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 22, 1970
Mr. DON H. CLAUSEN. Mr. Speaker,
during the trying and tense period imme-
diately following the President's decision
to move against Communist sanctuaries
in Cambodia and amid the tumult and
turmoil on our college campuses, a noted
educator in my congressional district
prepared and circulated a letter ad-
dressed "To my friends in the academic
community."
This letter, by Dr. Jacqueline R.
Kasun, associate professor of economics
at Humboldt State College in Arcata,
Calif., is an outstanding historical ac-
count of America's involvement in and
commitment to South Vietnam. In the
main, it Is a logical, factual, and non-
inflammatory statement. Beyond that
however, it portrays the kind of historical
perspective that is so often totally lack-

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
ing in the current rhetoric regarding
the war in Vietnam and the events that
led up to U.S. involvement in that con-
flict.
While I do not know Dr. Kasun per-
sonally, it is very obvious to me that she
is a woman of great insight and courage.
Her letter "To my friends in the aca-
demic community" has gained the sup-
port and endorsement of many of her
colleagues, as well as students, at Hum-
boldt State College.
Since this statement by Dr. Kasun con-
tains a message seldom heard from our
educational institutions these days, and
because I believe it merits the widest
possible dissemination, I am including
the full text of Dr. Kasun's letter in the
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD at this point:
To my friends in the academic community:
On November 20, 1941, the Ambassador of
Japan submitted to the Secretary of State
of the United States a note which demanded
that the United States end all Its opposition
to the new Japanese empire In Asia and place
the product of the vast American economy at
the disposal of the Japanese, including a so-
called "required quantity of oil," that re-
quirement to be determined by the Japa-
nese. The United States was told that if It
did not place its economy and resources at
the disposal of the Japanese empire in Asia,
It could "face the consequences." Those con-
sequences, which began within three weeks
when 2,000 young Americans were buried
alive in their ships at Pearl Harbor, were,
as some of us remember, the holocaust of
World War II, in which 25 million human
beings lost their lives.
In the decade preceding Pearl Harbor, the
United States had a thousand chances to
pose a limited resistance to the cumulating
aggression and subversion. A measured, lim-
ited response on our part in Manchuria, or
In Ethiopia, or the Rhineland, or Shanghai,
or Czechoslovakia, might well have averted
that tragic conflict. But that was the decade
of "peace." The shouting, hysterical "peace"
groups of that decade had their way, and
the United States did not resist at any point
from Manchuria through Munich to Pearl
Harbor. And at Pearl Harbor we had only
two options left-to surrender to the makers
of the gas ovens and their friends, or endure
the holocaust.
My beloved countrymen, have we forgotten
these lessons so soon? We thought we learned
in World War II that the wisest answer to
cumulative subversion and aggression lies in
collective security arrangements whereby all
come to the assistance of each threatened
commonwealth, hopefully early enough so
that no great use of force would be required.
We hoped    to implement this principle
through the United Nations but our hopes
have thus far, though we trust not perma-
nently, been frustrated.
A relatively small but growing and threat-
ening aggression has been carried out by
the North Viet Namese in Indo-China for
some years now. This aggression has been
reported by a majority of the International
Control Commission. It has been common
knowledge for weeks that our troop with-
drawals from that area have been answered
not by a cooling down of that aggression but
by its thrust into Laos, Cambodia, and Thai-
land.
Now our president has ordered a limited
military response to these new enemy initia-
tives, before the aggressors have gained an
empire and a vast military machine with
which to confront us and demand that we
choose between surrender or the conse-
quences which in the technology of 1970-75
might be very dreadful indeed.
It is not immoral for the people of Laos,

June 22, 1970
Cambodia, and Thailand to try to defend
themselves against the North Vietnamese,
who have no legitimate claims to their lands,
and It is not immoral for us to help them de-
fend themselves.
Our allies In Southeast Asia-the Austra-
lians, the Koreans, the people of New Zea-
land, Thailand, Cambodia, the Philippines-
cannot stand without us, but our commit-
ment need not be and is not very large. Statis-
tically speaking, a young American is safer
in our forces in Vietnam than he is in his car
on our highways. Contrary to the claims of
interested parties, it is not the cost of war
which is prohibiting desirable social pro-
grams in this country. Economically speak-
ing, we can easily afford this war along with
many important domestic improvements.
Some have suggested that we just dig into
our fortified places and remain doggedly in
Vietnam until the North Vietnamese tire of
the conflict and go away. This may be a real
option In the future, but during the past few
weeks while we have pulled Into our fortifica-
tions in preparations for our withdrawal, the
North Vietnamese have begun to swallow
the untrained Cambodians and the neutral-
ized Laotians and the outnumbered Thlas
bite by bite. This meal digested, they can
polish off our fortifications at their leisure,
one Dien Bien Phu after another, so to speak.
The most difficult thing that we must learn
is that we are not free to choose between in-
stant peace through withdrawal, on the one
hand, or war on the other. These are not our
options. However much we might wish It
otherwise, there is not the flimsiest evidence
that immediate withdrawal will lead to peace.
Instead we must choose between a limited,
reasoned commitment probably lasting over
a considerable period of time, on the one
hand, and, on the other a series of withdraw-
als and surrenders which will eventually lead
to the same desperate choices which faced
us in 1941.
We have no quarrel with peaceful com-
munism, as our millions of dollars in aid to
Yugoslavia testifies. Our only quarrel is with
aggression, open or covert, because by its
nature it threatens our existence. So soon as
the North Viet Namese begin to behave like
peaceful Yugoslav communists, we should
begin to treat them accordingly.
We have not tried to prevent a genuine
revolution in Viet Nam. Rightly or wrongly,
we did not interfere when Ho Chi Minh im-
posed his will by force upon his own people
at the cost of thousands of their lives. But
we have insisted that he not export that
revolution of unwilling people in the rest of
Indo-China.
We should not expect a victory: just a tie
will do-a stand-off, to give us time for more
negotiations, more peaceful competition,
more strengthening of international peace
machinery.
The fondest hope of aggressors everywhere
is a neutralized America. My dear friends,
let us not accommodate them by neutraliz-
ing ourselves by our internal dissensions
over this mistaken "peace" movement. The
peace movement of our time makes about as
much sense as the prohibition movement. It
was by way of the peace movement that we
backed into World War II.
We must continue to make it clear that
we have no quarrel with peaceful commu-
nism, that we will send representatives any-
where to negotiate, that we will cooperate
with anyone to achieve peaceful economic
and social progress for all peoples. But we will
not neutralize ourselves-or should I say cas-
trate ourselves-on the demands of any for-
eign militarists or any domestic militants.
As the great democratic socialist Willy
Brandt has said, humanity has a real chance
to survive, civilization has a real chance to
endure, if we will only refuse to panic, and
will learn to wait patiently for our oppor-
tunities, which will surely come. If we can



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1209.txt

June 22, 1970
learn patience and restraint, if we can disci-
pline ourselves to many a dark night of un-
certain, waiting, if we can learn to live
through years of ambiguous improvising on
persistent and recalcitrant issues, our chil-
dren-and I mean all the children of the
world-will yet live in prosperity and peace.
JACQUELINE R. KAsuN, Ph. D., A.B.,
Associate Professor of Economics, Hum-
boldt State College.
THE SST SCRAIBLER
HON. ALLARD K. LOWENSTEIN
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 22, 1970
Mr. LOWENSTEIN. Mr. Speaker, so
many things we are doing these days
lend themselves to lampooning that we
may be giving rise to the golden age of
American satire. A good example of the
genre, inspired by the SST folly, ap-
peared recently in Newsday.
THE SST SCRAMBLER
(By Marvin Kitman)
Among the claims being made for the
SST-which isn't one of those new miracle
pesticides but what the scientific writers call
an airplane-is that it will increase air pol-
lution, intensify noise pollution and maybe
blot out the sun. But I'm against the super-
sonic transport because it sounds like it will
be bad for television.
While most viewers have been sitting at
home not thinking about the SST, the
plane's designers haven't been     worrying
much about the way the SST will be inter-
fering with television reception.
As far as I've been able to learn, the SST
will cause a sort of air turbulence in the sky
that will get the channels mixed up. You will
be sitting there watching Walter Cronkite
when all of a sudden David Brinkley will
appear on your screen. That's not anything
to get alarmed about, since most of those
commentators basically have the same liberal
ideas anyway. But someday in 1972 or 1973,
when the SST is expected to be operational,
Vice President Agnew may be on the "Art
Linkletter Show" explaining why we will be
pulling the troops out of Cambodia any day
now-and you suddenly might hear the
canned laughter from the sound track of "I
Love Lucy."
The scrambling of audio and video waves
thus destroys one of the basic rights we are
fighting for in Asia: the free choice of tele-
vision viewers to watch programs as the net-
works send them out. Why should the gov-
ernment, then, want to get involved in a pie-
in-the-sky project like the SST? It may be
that it's good for business.
One of the corporations financially involved
in the SST is General Electric. They are put-
ting up three per cent of the research cost,
which doesn't seem like much compared to
Boeing's seven per cent and the taxpayers'
90 per cent. All the experts have been saying
that the SST is like throwing money up the
flue; it will never pay off. My sources say the
real reason GE is hanging in there is that
SST will help sell more TV sets.
The first year or so after the SST starts
flying, a lot of people will notice that their
TV sets are going on the blink (because of
those airplanes whooshing through the air
waves). The TV repairmen will fix them
time after time; they never like to admit
they don't know what's wrong with a set.
Eventually you will conclude there's some-
thing seriously wrong and buy a new set.
GE will get its usual share of the new set
market. But the really big money is in the

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
special accessory-receivers which will prevent
interference with reception by sonic booms
or SST-airport noise no matter how close you
live to the airport. The GE model, I've been
told, has a headpiece and will come in seven
styles and decorator colors, and will sell for
approximately $3,000. The SST will sell for
$60,000,000, if you'd rather have on of those.
Other manufacturers will get into the
newly-created market by making accessory-
receivers featuring the electronic wonder,
wider-range ultra-volume controls. The sales
advantage here is that TV can be heard over
SST take-off noise, which is 50 times as loud
as the jumbo jets.
There is no stopping progress. Still more
research should be done on the impact of
the SST on television. What will happen if
the sonic boom topples a TV antenna right
in the middle of primetime? Nothing good,
I'm sure.
When the government and private indus-
try start messing around with the air waves,
a free society Is in trouble. Look what hap-
pened to the young generation once the gov-
ernment and the chemical industry started
putting fluorides into water.
THE CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT
OF 1970, HR. 18067
HON. FLORENCE P. DWYER
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, June 22, 1970
Mrs. DWYER. Mr. Speaker, the road
has been long and rocky, but I believe the
establishment of an effective statutory
consumer protection organization in the
Federal Government is at last in sight.
Having labored so long in this endeavor,
it is difficult to fully express my pleasure
at having the Consumer Protection Act-
H.R. 18067-reported to the full House
Government Operations Committee last
week.
In one sense, this bill may be consid-
ered a compromise. And, I am proud to
label it as such because it represents the
true spirit of the legislative process where
members of different parties and expo-
nents of differing political philosophies
cooperate together to devise the best
means of protecting the public interest.
In this regard, Congressman ROSENTHAL
deserves a special mark of gratitude. He
has been in the forefront of the con-
sumer protection fight in the House for
a number of years now and, although
discouragement must have visited him
more than once, he has remained un-
daunted in his efforts to move this neces-
sary legislation forward. In like fashion,
Congressmen JoHN BLATNIK, the sub-
committee chairman, CHET HOLIFIELD,
the acting chairman of the full commit-
tee, JOHN ERLENBORN, the ranking Re-
publican on the subcommittee, CLARENCE
BROWN, and PAUL FINDLEY all devoted
many hours of their talents and time to
putting this legislation together. I am
grateful to them all, as I am to the more
than 60 Members on both sides of the
aisle who cosponsored my original bill.
As much as H.R. 18067 is a compro-
mise, it is also an amalgamation of the
best ideas contained in the principal con-
sumer legislation that was before the
subcommittee: the Rosenthal bill, the

20857

Dwyer bill, and the bill proposed by the
administration which I also introduced.
During our third round of hearings in
April of this year, I stated:
If we are to have [consumer] legislation,
it will have to come through compromise
or . . . amalgamation. But I believe we can
devise a compromise so desirable that it will
actually be an improvement over any of the
bills individually.
That is exactly what I feel the reported
bill represents, especially in the sense of
legislation which will be effectual and
which can be passed.
To the Office of Consumer Affairs, lo-
cated in the Executive Office of the Presi-
dent, there is granted the key functions
of first, encouraging and assisting in the
development and implementation of con-
sumer programs and activities within
the Federal Government; second, coordi-
nating Federal consumer programs and
activities; third, assuring that the in-
terests of consumers are considered and
implemented    by   Federal    agencies;
fourth, recommending improvements in
Federal programs and operations; fifth,
conducting conferences, surveys, and in-
vestigations; sixth, encouraging, initiat-
ing, coordinating, and supporting con-
sumer education, research, and studies;
seventh, cooperating and assisting State
and local governments and private en-
terprise; and eighth, publishing and dis-
tributing a consumer register.
To the independently established Con-
sumer Protection Agency is granted the
vital functions of representing the inter-
ests of consumers before Federal agen-
cies and courts and assuming the con-
sumer safety responsibilities of the Na-
tional Commission on Product Safety
whose tenure will soon lapse.
To both agencies is given the task of
receiving, evaluating, acting upon, and
transmitting consumer complaints; and
developing and disseminating consumer
information, including test results.
Those of us who drafted H.R. 18067
see this division of responsibility not as
some form of divided or duplicative au-
thority. To the contrary, after hearing
testimony from dozens of leading con-
sumer specialists and after deliberating
amongst ourselves for many hours, it was
the opinion of all of us that different
functions may be best performed by sep-
arate   organizations  under   different
settings.
Thus, the Office of Consumer Affairs
can employ the influences of the White
House to encourage Federal agencies to
improve their consumer protection func-
tions, to knock heads together until im-
proved operations and coordination de-
velop, and to better assure the interests
of consumers are adequately considered
by the Federal agencies. This Office could
be located nowhere else, in my opinion,
and perform its duties as effectively as it
could in the Executive Office of the Pres-
ident with the prestige of the President
behind it.
By the same token, the consensus of
opinion developed that the functions of
representing the interest of consumers
before Federal agencies and courts and
performing consumer safety functions
should best be entrusted to an independ-
ent agency which would be free of con-



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1210.txt

20858
flicting influences and which could take
continuing action without embarrassing
the President or forcing him to choose
sides at the routine operating-nonpol-
icy-level between Federal agencies or
between alternative public obligations.
There are those who may feel that a
certain amount of duplication has been
built into this legislation, particularly in
extending the consumer complaint and
information functions to both agencies.
The fact is that although the general
authority in these two cases has been
granted to both consumer units, the stat-
utory language spells out the intention
that the units effectively coordinate their
responsibilities to prevent duplication. In
the case of the Agency's right to request
other agencies to perform tests, such tests
may only be conducted in support of the
Agency's designated responsibilities. In
this regard, I want to state clearly that
neither the Office nor the Agency is au-
thorized to engage in product testing it-
self. Federal agencies, in turn, are to be
compensated for the testing services so
performed.
This consumer bill also gives birth to
two   additional legislative  provisions
which, if administered effectively, could
greatly benefit consumers.
One   provides   that  every  Federal
agency which takes action which may
substantially aff ct the interests of con-
sumers, such as the promulgation of rules
and regulations, the formulation of pol-
icy decisions, or the issuance of orders or
decrees, shall take the interests of con-
sumers into consideration when so acting,
provide public notice of the action so
taken, and indicate publicly the man-
ner in which such action shall affect the
consumer interest and the means by
which the consumer interest is to be pro-
tccted. By forcing Federal agencies to
zero in on the consumer interest when
engaging in their regular activities and
to publicly disclose the bases for their
actions, it is hoped that this will induce
a greater awareness of consumer needs
and commitment to consumer protection
within the Government.
The other new innovation is the at-
tempt to create a Consumer Advisory
Council which is independent of the
agency or operation it is acting as an ad-
viser to and which is capable and will-
ing to perform a critical and intelligent
evaluation, review, and oversight in re-
gard to such agency-in this case both
the Office and Agency. I fully recognize
that we have witnessed the creation and
atrophying of multitudes of advisory
councils, commissions, and boards over
the years. I retain the faith, however,
that such an organization can be effec-
tive in discharging its responsibilities if
dedicated individuals are selected, if
proper responsibility is conferred, and if
adequate staff and facilities are made
available to the council for it to use as it
deems proper. That is precisely what we
have sought to do in the case of the ad-
visory council.
Finally, let me express some concern
that I have felt in recent days over cer-
tain press reports that the Rosenthal-
Dwyer bill constitutes a rejection of the
administration's proposed consumer pro-
tection legislation. Nothing could be far-

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
ther from the truth. Indeed, the Presi-
dent himself publicly expressed his will-
ingness to accept a reasonable compro-
mise.
This legislation, as reported repre-
sents just such a compromise or amal-
gamation, as I have indicated earlier.
No one bill predominates; no one au-
thor exists. Those items in each bill
deemed most worthwhile and important
were selected consistent with the sub-
committee's overall concept of what is
needed and possible. The administra-
tion's bill was considered and utilized
as were the other two bills. Separation of
the policy, coordinating and imple-
mentation functions from the agency
representation and safety functions was
as much in support of what the admin-
istration wanted as it was in sup-
port of Congressman ROSENTHAL'S inter-
ests. Elimination of the consumer unit's
authority to conduct tests and the limi-
tation in the purposes for which testing
may be conducted also constitutes an ef-
fort to comply with the views of the ad-
ministration and the establishment of a
