fail. That is a sad commentary.
We are going to continue. A bill is on
the floor now. It is another bill to cre-
ate jobs, small-business job creation.
We have worked hard to get that
done-Senator LANDRIEU, Senator BAU-
CUB, Small Business, Finance-and we
will have a vote on that Monday.
Again, it is being blocked by the Re-
publicans, blocking us from even going
to it. So we will need 60 votes Monday
to allow us to debate whether this
country needs small businesses to cre-
ate jobs. We should be on that bill
today so people could start offering
amendments and do something produc-
tive. But, no, what will happen on Mon-
day is they will probably vote for it,
and then they will get the 30 hours to
sit around and look at each other and
do nothing. That is what the rules of
the Senate allow. So they have accom-
plished more of their wasting time to
prevent the Obama administration and
the rest of us from    accomplishing
something good for the country. We are
going to continue to try. We have to do
that in spite of the obstructionism of
the Republicans.
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tern-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
SMALL BUSINESS LENDING FUND
ACT OF 2010-MOTION TO PROCEED
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
Senate will resume consideration of
the motion to proceed to H.R. 5297,
which the clerk will report by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
Motion to proceed to the consideration of
H.R. 5297, a bill to create the Small Business
Lending Fund Program to direct the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to make capital in-
vestments in eligible institutions in order to
increase the availability of credit for small
businesses, to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to provide tax incentives for
small business job creation, and for other
purposes.
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I suggest
the absence of a quorum.

11781



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1400.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE, Vol. 156, Pt. 8

June 25, 2010

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the Senate proceed
to executive session to consider Execu-
tive Calendar No. 962, the nomination
of John Pistole to be Assistant Sec-
retary of Homeland Security; that the
nomination be confirmed, the motion
to reconsider be laid upon the table;
that any statements relating to the
nomination be printed in the RECORD
as if read; that the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate's action
and the Senate resume legislative ses-
sion.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The nomination considered and con-
firmed is as follows:
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
John S. Pistole, of Virginia, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of Homeland Security.
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senate will now return to
legislative session.
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the Senate proceed
to a period for the transaction of morn-
ing business, with Senators allowed to
speak for up to 10 minutes each.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:50 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has agreed to
the following concurrent resolution, in
which it requests the concurrence of
the Senate:
H. Con. Res. 285. Concurrent resolution rec-
ognizing the important role that fathers play
in the lives of their children and families and
supporting the goals and ideals of desig-
nating 2010 as the Year of the Father.
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bills were read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:

H.R. 5481. An act to give subpoena power to
the National Commission on the BP Deep-
water Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drill-
ing.
H.R. 5551. An act to require the Secretary
of the Treasury to make a certification when
making purchases under the Small Business
Lending Fund Program.
ENROLLED BILLS AND JOINT
RESOLUTION PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, June 25, 2010, she had
presented   to  the  President of the
United States the following enrolled
bills and joint resolution:
S. 1660. An act to amend the Toxic Sub-
stances Control Act to reduce the emissions
of formaldehyde from composite wood prod-
ucts, and for other purposes.
S. 2865. An act to reauthorize the Congres-
sional Award Act (2 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), and
for other purposes.
S.J. Res. 32. Joint resolution recognizing
the 60th anniversary of the outbreak of the
Korean War and reaffirming the United
States-Korea alliance.
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. LEAHY, from the Committee on
the Judiciary, without amendment:
H.R. 908. A bill to amend the Violent Crime
Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 to
reauthorize the Missing Alzheimer's Disease
Patient Alert Program.
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and
Mrs. BOXER):
S. 3539. A bill to amend the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act to establish a grant
program to assist in the restoration of San
Francisco Bay; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. KERRY (for himself and Mr.
LUGAR):
S. Res. 566. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate regarding the situation
in Kyrgyzstan; considered and agreed to.
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 546
At the request of Mr. REID, the name
of the Senator from Louisiana (Ms.
LANDRIEU) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 546, a bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to permit certain retired
members of the uniformed services who
have a service-connected disability to

receive both disability compensation
from the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs for their disability and either re-
tired pay by reason of their years of
military  service or Combat-Related
Special Compensation.
S. 3043
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Alaska
(Mr. BEGICH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3043, a bill to award planning
grants and implementation grants to
State educational agencies to enable
the State educational agencies to com-
plete comprehensive planning to carry
out activities designed to integrate en-
gineering education into K-12 instruc-
tion and curriculum and to provide
evaluation grants to measure efficacy
of K-12 engineering education.
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself
and Mrs. BOXER):
S. 3539. A bill to amend the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act to estab-
lish a grant program to assist in the
restoration of San Francisco Bay; to
the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise on behalf of myself and Senator
BOXER to introduce legislation to fur-
ther the restoration of the San Fran-
cisco Bay.
There are many areas in the country
in with restoration is done, and I am
pleased to introduce an authorization
for restoration work in the San Fran-
cisco Bay with Senator BOXER, Chair-
woman of the Senate Environment and
Public Works Committee, and to work
with  our   colleague  Representative
SPEIER in the U.S. House of Represent-
atives.
As an appropriator, and Chair of the
Appropriations Subcommittee on Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agen-
cies, I have secured $17 million in Fed-
eral funding for ecosystem restoration
and water quality work in the San
Francisco Bay in the last 3 years. I
have also secured $15 million since 2006
for the Fish and Wildlife Service to re-
store salt ponds to tidal wetlands in
the Bay.
It is necessary to ensure that these
funds continue to be appropriated and
are spent on    the most important
projects for the ecosystem and public
benefit.
To that end, this legislation will
prioritize funding for projects that will
protect and restore vital estuarine
habitat  for   migratory   waterfowl,
shorebirds, and wildlife; improve and
restore water ruality and rearing habi-
tat for fish; and ensure public benefits.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the text of the bill be printed
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:

11782



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1401.txt

June 25, 2010

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE, Vol. 156, Pt. 8

S. 3539
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the "San Fran-
cisco Bay Restoration Act".
SEC. 2. SAN FRANCISCO BAY RESTORATION
GRANT PROGRAM.
Title I of the Federal Water Pollution Con-
trol Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
"SEC. 123. SAN FRANCISCO BAY RESTORATION
GRANT PROGRAM.
"(a) GRANT PROGRAM.-
"(1) IN GENERAL.-The Administrator may
provide grants to State and local agencies,
and public or nonprofit agencies, institu-
tions, and organizations, for ecosystem res-
toration projects and habitat improvement
for fish, waterfowl, and wildlife, in accord-
ance with the priorities described in the
comprehensive management plan for the San
Francisco estuary developed under section
320.
"(2) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF GRANTS; NON-FED-
ERAL SHARE.-
"(A) MAXIMUM    AMOUNT OF GRANTS.-A
grant provided to any individual or entity
under this section for a fiscal year shall not
exceed an amount equal to 50 percent of the
total cost of eligible activities that are to be
carried out using funds from the grant.
"(B) NON-FEDERAL SHARE.-The non-Fed-
eral share of the total cost of any eligible ac-
tivities that are carried out using funds from
a grant provided under this section shall be-
"(i) not less than 50 percent; and
"(ii) provided from non-Federal sources.
"(b) FUNDING.-
"(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.-
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Administrator to carry out this section
such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal
years 2011 through 2020.
"(2) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.-Of the
amount made available to carry out this sec-
tion for a fiscal year, the Administrator
shall use not more than 5 percent to pay ad-
ministrative expenses incurred in carrying
out this section.".
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE       RESOLUTION        566-EX-
PRESSING     THE    SENSE    OF   THE
SENATE REGARDING THE SITUA-
TION IN KYRGYZSTAN
Mr. KERRY (for himself and Mr.
LUGAR) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was considered and agreed
to:
S. RES. 566
Whereas on June 10, 2010, violence erupted
between ethnic Kyrgyz and Uzbek commu-
nities  in  the  southern  city  of Osh,
Kyrgyzstan, and later spread to the city of
Jalalabad, leaving at least several hundred
dead and thousands injured;
Whereas the outbreak of violence forced as
many as 400,000 people to flee their homes,
including an estimated 100,000 women and
children who face desperate conditions along
the Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan border;
Whereas the United Nations Children's
Fund (UNICEF) and other United Nations
agencies estimate that the violence could di-
rectly or indirectly affect more than 1,000,000
people;

Whereas the displacement of ethnic Uzbeks
and continuing instability in the southern
part of Kyrgyzstan could destabilize the Pro-
visional Government of Kyrgyzstan and un-
dermine the legitimacy of the referendum on
constitutional reform scheduled for June 27,
2010;
Whereas the Provisional Government of
Kyrgyzstan, which came to power in April
2010 following large-scale opposition protests
against the regime of former president
Kurmanbek Bakiyev, has yet to fully extend
its authority in the south and build the ca-
pacity necessary to address underlying polit-
ical, social, and economic tensions;
Whereas Kyrgyz and Uzbeks in Osh have
retreated into largely self-segregated neigh-
borhoods, creating the potential for a perma-
nent division into ethnic enclaves that could
impede the delivery of humanitarian assist-
ance and jeopardize the long-term stability
of the country;
Whereas rioting and violence in southern
Kyrgyzstan could spread to other areas in
the Ferghana Valley, which spans the coun-
tries  of  Kyrgyzstan,  Uzbekistan, and
Tajikistan, and further exacerbate inter-eth-
nic competition for resources in the region;
Whereas    protracted   instability  in
Kyrgyzstan and the wider region could pro-
vide a safe haven for extremists and criminal
networks and obstruct efforts to combat the
drug trade;
Whereas stability in Kyrgyzstan and the
broader Central Asia region, which borders
Afghanistan, Iran, China, and Russia, is im-
portant to the national security interests of
the United States;
Whereas Central Asia plays a vital role in
the United States strategy for Afghanistan,
including the transit center at Manas Inter-
national Airport in Kyrgyzstan that forms
an integral part of the northern supply route
for North Atlantic Treaty Organization and
United States-led coalition operations in Af-
ghanistan;
Whereas promoting stability, respect for
human rights, and economic and political re-
form in Central Asia are important priorities
for the United States;
Whereas economic growth and democratic
political development in Central Asia would
provide a foundation for improved coopera-
tion with the United States in confronting
an array of global challenges, from non-
proliferation and counter-narcotics to en-
ergy security and climate change; and
Whereas the potential for escalating vio-
lence in Kyrgyzstan concerns not only the
United States and the people of Kyrgyzstan,
but also the countries in the region and the
international community: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Sen-
ate-
(1) to call upon all parties in Kyrgyzstan to
refrain from violence and attend to the civil-
ians who have been displaced or injured as a
result of the violence, paying particular at-
tention to the ethnic Uzbek population along
the Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan border;
(2) that the Provisional Government of
Kyrgyzstan should-
(A) take immediate steps to restore order,
the rule of law, and the democratic process;
(B) address the underlying political, social,
and economic tensions that divide Kyrgyz
society for all citizens of Kyrgyzstan, regard-
less of ethnic background; and
(C) bring to justice those responsible for
the recent violence;
(3) to support calls for a full and fair inves-
tigation into the causes of the violence in
southern Kyrgyzstan;

(4) to welcome the commitment of more
than $32,000,000 of the United States Govern-
ment to Kyrgyzstan for programs supporting
humanitarian  relief, reconstruction, and
community stabilization;
(5) to commend the Government of Uzbek-
istan for cooperating with the United Na-
tions High Commissioner for Refugees, the
International Committee of the Red Cross,
UNICEF, and other international nongovern-
mental organizations in meeting the urgent
needs of Uzbek refugees;
(6) that the Government of Uzbekistan
should maintain an open border in order to
ensure that the displaced and vulnerable
populations seeking refuge in Uzbekistan
may avail themselves of emergency humani-
tarian assistance and protection services;
(7) to call upon the Organization for Secu-
rity and Cooperation in Europe to help re-
store calm and order through-
(A) strengthening the democratic institu-
tions of Kyrgyzstan;
(B) encouraging respect for human rights
and fundamental freedoms;
(C) establishing a framework for dialogue
among the ethnic communities; and
(D) promoting confidence building meas-
ures between the Provisional Government of
Kyrgyzstan and ethnic communities; and
(8) to commend the efforts of relief organi-
zations and all persons responding to the im-
mediate humanitarian needs of those dis-
placed by the recent outbreak of violence in
Kyrgyzstan.
PERMANENT RADIO FREE ASIA
AUTHORIZATION ACT
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the Senate proceed
to Calendar No. 439, S. 3104.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tern-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The assistant legislative clerk read
as follows:
A bill (S. 3104) to permanently authorize
Radio Free Asia, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Foreign Relations, with an amend-
ment to strike all after the enacting
clause and insert in lieu thereof the
following:
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Radio Free Asia (referred to in this Act as
"RFA ")-
(A) was authorized under section 309 of the
United States International Broadcasting Act of
1994 (22 U.S.C. 6208);
(B) was incorporated as a private, non-profit
corporation in March 1996 in the hope that its
operations would soon be obviated by the global
advancement of democracy; and
(C) is headquartered in Washington, DC, with
additional offices in Bangkok, Hong Kong,
Phnom Penh, Seoul, Ankara, and Taipei.
(2) RFA broadcasts serve as substitutes for in-
digenous free media in regions lacking free
media outlets.
(3) The mission of RFA is "to provide accurate
and timely news and information to Asian coun-
tries whose governments prohibit access to a free
press" in order to enable informed decision-
making by the people within Asia.
(4) RFA provides daily broadcasts of news,
commentary, analysis, and cultural program-
ming to Asian countries in several languages,
including-

11783



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1402.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE, Vol. 156, Pt. 8

June 25, 2010

(A) 12 hours per day in Mandarin;
(B) 8 hours per day in 3 Tibetan dialects, Uke,
Kham, and Amdo;
(C) 4 hours per day in Korean and Burmese;
(D) 2 hours per day in Cantonese, Vietnamese,
Laotian, Khmer (Cambodian), and Uyghur; and
(E) 11 2 hours per week in Wu (local Shanghai
dialect).
(5) The governments of the countries targeted
for these broadcasts have consistently denied
and blocked attempts at Medium Wave and FM
transmissions into their countries, forcing RFA
to rely on Shortwave broadcasts and the Inter-
net.
(6) RFA has provided continuous online news
to its Asian audiences since 2004, although some
countries-
(A) routinely and aggressively block RFA's
website;
(B) monitor access to RFA's website; and
(C) discourage online users by making it ille-
gal to access RFA 's website.
(7) Despite these attempts, RFA has success-
fully managed to reach its online audiences
through proxies, cutting-edge software, and ac-
tive republication and repostings by its audi-
ence.
(8) RFA also provides forums for local opin-
ions and experiences through message boards,
podcasts, web logs (blogs), cell phone-distributed
newscasts, and new media, including Facebook,
Flickr, Twitter, and YouTube.
(9) Freedom House has documented that free-
dom of the press is in decline in nearly every re-
gion of the world, particularly in Asia, where
none of the countries served by RFA have in-
creased their freedom of the press during the
past 5 years.
(10) In fiscal year 2010, RFA is operating on a
$37,000,000 budget, less than $400,000 of which is
available to fund   Internet censorship  cir-
cumvention.
(11) Congress currently provides grant fund-
ing for RFA's operations on a fiscal year basis.
SEC. 2. SENSE OF THE SENATE.
It is the sense of the Senate that-
(1) public access to timely, uncensored, and
accurate information is imperative for promoting
government accountability and the protection of
human rights;
(2) Radio Free Asia provides a vital voice to
people in Asia;
(3) some of the governments in Asia spend mil-
lions of dollars each year to jam RFA's short-
wave, block its Internet sites;
(4) Congress should provide additional fund-
ing to RFA and the other entities overseen by
the Broadcasting Board of Governors for-
(A) Internet censorship circumvention; and
(B) enhancement of their cyber security ef-
forts; and
(5) permanently   authorizing  funding  for
Radio Free Asia would-
(A) reflect the concern that media censorship
and press restrictions in the countries served by
RFA have increased since RFA was established;
and
(B) send a powerful signal of our Nation's
support for free press in Asia and throughout
the world.
SEC. 3. PERMANENT AUTHORIZATION FOR RADIO
FREE ASIA.
Section 309 of the United States International
Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6208) is
amended-
(1) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ", and
shall further specify that funds to carry out the
activities of Radio Free Asia may not be avail-
able after September 30, 2010";
(2) by striking subsection (f);
(3) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as
subsection (f) and (g), respectively; and
(4) in subsection (f), as redesignated-
(A) by striking "The Board" and inserting the
following:

"(1) NOTIFICATION.-The Board";
(B) by striking "before entering" and insert-
ing the following: "before-
"(A) entering";
(C) by striking "Radio Free Asia." and insert-
ing the following: "Radio Free Asia; or
"(B) entering into any agreements in regard
to the utilization of Radio Free Asia transmit-
ters, equipment, or other resources that will sig-
nificantly reduce the broadcasting activities of
Radio Free Asia. ";
(D) by striking "The Chairman" and inserting
the following:
"(2) CONSULTATION.-The Chairman"; and
(E) by inserting "or Radio Free Asia broad-
casting activities" before the period at the end.
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the committee-re-
ported amendment be agreed to, the
bill, as amended, be read the third time
and passed, the motion to reconsider be
laid upon the table, and that any state-
ments relating to this bill be printed in
the RECORD.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tern-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The committee amendment in the
nature of a substitute was agreed to.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading, was read the third
time, and passed.
REGARDING KYRGYZSTAN
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent to proceed to the consid-
eration of S. Res. 566.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will report the resolu-
tion by title.
The assistant legislative clerk read
as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 566) expressing the
sense of the Senate regarding the situation
in Kyrgyzstan.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the resolution be
agreed to, the preamble be agreed to,
the motions to reconsider be laid upon
the table, with no intervening action
or debate, and that any statements re-
lating to the resolution be printed in
the RECORD.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The resolution    (S. Res. 566) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
The resolution, with its preamble,
reads as follows:
S. REs. 566
Whereas on June 10, 2010, violence erupted
between ethnic Kyrgyz and Uzbek commu-
nities in  the  southern  city  of Osh,
Kyrgyzstan, and later spread to the city of
Jalalabad, leaving at least several hundred
dead and thousands injured;
Whereas the outbreak of violence forced as
many as 400,000 people to flee their homes,
including an estimated 100,000 women and
children who face desperate conditions along
the Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan border;
Whereas the United Nations Children's
Fund (UNICEF) and other United Nations

agencies estimate that the violence could di-
rectly or indirectly affect more than 1,000,000
people;
Whereas the displacement of ethnic Uzbeks
and continuing instability in the southern
part of Kyrgyzstan could destabilize the Pro-
visional Government of Kyrgyzstan and un-
dermine the legitimacy of the referendum on
constitutional reform scheduled for June 27,
2010;
Whereas the Provisional Government of
Kyrgyzstan, which came to power in April
2010 following large-scale opposition protests
against the regime of former president
Kurmanbek Bakiyev, has yet to fully extend
its authority in the south and build the ca-
pacity necessary to address underlying polit-
ical, social, and economic tensions;
Whereas Kyrgyz and Uzbeks in Osh have
retreated into largely self-segregated neigh-
borhoods, creating the potential for a perma-
nent division into ethnic enclaves that could
impede the delivery of humanitarian assist-
ance and jeopardize the long-term stability
of the country;
Whereas rioting and violence in southern
Kyrgyzstan could spread to other areas in
the Ferghana Valley, which spans the coun-
tries  of  Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and
Tajikistan, and further exacerbate inter-eth-
nic competition for resources in the region;
Whereas    protracted   instability  in
Kyrgyzstan and the wider region could pro-
vide a safe haven for extremists and criminal
networks and obstruct efforts to combat the
drug trade;
Whereas stability in Kyrgyzstan and the
broader Central Asia region, which borders
Afghanistan, Iran, China, and Russia, is im-
portant to the national security interests of
the United States;
Whereas Central Asia plays a vital role in
the United States strategy for Afghanistan,
including the transit center at Manas Inter-
national Airport in Kyrgyzstan that forms
an integral part of the northern supply route
for North Atlantic Treaty Organization and
United States-led coalition operations in Af-
ghanistan;
Whereas promoting stability, respect for
human rights, and economic and political re-
form in Central Asia are important priorities
for the United States;
Whereas economic growth and democratic
political development in Central Asia would
provide a foundation for improved coopera-
tion with the United States in confronting
an array of global challenges, from non-
proliferation and counter-narcotics to en-
ergy security and climate change; and
Whereas the potential for escalating vio-
lence in Kyrgyzstan concerns not only the
United States and the people of Kyrgyzstan,
but also the countries in the region and the
international community: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Sen-
ate-
(1) to call upon all parties in Kyrgyzstan to
refrain from violence and attend to the civil-
ians who have been displaced or injured as a
result of the violence, paying particular at-
tention to the ethnic Uzbek population along
the Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan border;
(2) that the Provisional Government of
Kyrgyzstan should-
(A) take immediate steps to restore order,
the rule of law, and the democratic process;
(B) address the underlying political, social,
and economic tensions that divide Kyrgyz
society for all citizens of Kyrgyzstan, regard-
less of ethnic background; and
(C) bring to justice those responsible for
the recent violence;

11784



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1403.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE, Vol.]

(3) to support calls for a full and fair inves-
tigation into the causes of the violence in
southern Kyrgyzstan;
(4) to welcome the commitment of more
than $32,000,000 of the United States Govern-
ment to Kyrgyzstan for programs supporting
humanitarian  relief, reconstruction, and
community stabilization;
(5) to commend the Government of Uzbek-
istan for cooperating with the United Na-
tions High Commissioner for Refugees, the
International Committee of the Red Cross,
UNICEF, and other international nongovern-
mental organizations in meeting the urgent
needs of Uzbek refugees;
(6) that the Government of Uzbekistan
should maintain an open border in order to
ensure that the displaced and vulnerable
populations seeking refuge in Uzbekistan
may avail themselves of emergency humani-
tarian assistance and protection services;
(7) to call upon the Organization for Secu-
rity and Cooperation in Europe to help re-
store calm and order through-
(A) strengthening the democratic institu-
tions of Kyrgyzstan;
(B) encouraging respect for human rights
and fundamental freedoms;
(C) establishing a framework for dialogue
among the ethnic communities; and
(D) promoting confidence building meas-
ures between the Provisional Government of
Kyrgyzstan and ethnic communities; and
(8) to commend the efforts of relief organi-
zations and all persons responding to the im-
mediate humanitarian needs of those dis-
placed by the recent outbreak of violence in
Kyrgyzstan.
ORDER FOR RECORD TO REMAIN
OPEN
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the RECORD remain

open until 12 noon for the purpose of
the introduction of legislation, the in-
sertion of statements, and any cospon-
sors, notwithstanding an adjournment
of the Senate.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tern-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
ORDERS FOR MONDAY, JUNE 28,
2010
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that when the Senate
completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 2 p.m. on Monday, June 28;
that following the prayer and pledge,
the Journal of proceedings be approved
to date, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the time for the two leaders be
reserved for their use later in the day,
and that following any leader remarks,
the Senate proceed to a period of morn-
ing business until 3 p.m., with Senators
permitted to speak for up to 10 minutes
each; that following morning business,
the Senate resume consideration of the
motion to proceed to H.R. 5297.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
PROGRAM
Mr. REID. Mr. Presiderit, under a
previous order, at 5 p.m. on Monday,
the Senate will proceed to executive
session to debate the nomination of
Gary Feinerman to be United States

June 25, 2010

[56, Pt. 8                    11785
District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Illinois, with the time until 5:30
p.m. equally divided and controlled be-
tween Senators LEAHY and SESSIONS or
their designees.
At 5:30 p.m., there will be two rolleall
votes. The first vote will be on the mo-
tion to invoke cloture on the motion to
proceed to H.R. 5297; the second vote
will be on confirmation of the Fein-
erman nomination.
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY,
JUNE 28, 2010, AT 2 P.M.
Mr. REID. Mr. President, if there is
no further business to come before the
Senate, I ask unanimous consent that
it stand adjourned under the previous
order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 11:04 a.m., adjourned until Monday,
June 28, 2010, at 2 p.m.
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate, Friday, June 25, 2010:
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
JOHN S. PISTOLE. OF VIRGINIA, TO BE AN ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY.
The above nomination was approved
subject to the nominee's commitment
to respond to requests to appear and
testify before any duly constituted
committee of the Senate.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1404.txt

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS, Vol. 156, Pt. 8
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS

June 25, 2010

INTRODUCTION OF STOP OIL
SPILLS ACT
HON. EDWARD J. MARKEY
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, June 25, 2010
Mr. MARKEY of Massachusetts. Madam
Speaker, since the explosion of the Deepwater
Horizon and the death of 11 workers on April
20, 2010, the American people have watched
helplessly as millions of barrels of oil have
spilled into the Gulf of Mexico. It has become
obvious that the technologies to drill ever
deeper for oil and gas have developed rapidly,
but the technologies needed to prevent or stop
catastrophic spills have not. That is why I am
introducing the Stop Oil Spills Act, or the SOS
Act. If we are going to drill ultra-deep, we
must be able to make that drilling ultra-safe
and to stop any spill ultra-fast.
The SOS Act repeals Sections 999A
through 999H of the Energy Policy Act of 2005
and establishes in its place the "Innovative
Offshore Drilling Safety Technology Program."
The bill takes $50 million per year in oil and
gas royalty payments, which currently are di-
rected to a 2005 Energy Policy Act program
that subsidizes industry development of deep-
water drilling technology, and redirects those
funds to a Department of Energy grant pro-
gram to develop next-generation technologies
to prevent or stop offshore drilling spills. This
new program will help ensure that we avoid
future offshore well blowouts like the one that
led to the current disaster in the Gulf of Mex-
ico, and that in the event of a blowout, that we
have the right tools on hand to stop the spill
quickly and effectively.
The latest estimates are that between
35,000 and 60,000 barrels of oil are spewing
into our territorial waters every day. While BP
gave assurance that it could respond to a spill
of more than four times this amount, the re-
ality is quite different. In attempt after failed at-
tempt to stop the flow of oil into the Gulf, from
"top kill" to "top hat" to "junk shot", BP has
demonstrated that it is not prepared to deal
with the consequences of a deepwater well
blowout with such great pressures and depths.
With other companies' spill response plans vir-
tually mirroring those of BP's, it appears that
the industry as a whole is equally unprepared.
Over the last three years, the five largest
independent oil producers amassed nearly
$289 billion dollars in profits, invested a total
of $39 billion to explore for new oil and gas
deposits, and invested more than $10 billion in
research and development. And yet over that
time, ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips, and BP in-
vested an average of just $20 million per year
in research and development on safety, acci-
dent prevention, and spill response tech-
nologies and capabilities. BP CEO Tony Hay-
ward's admission that his company lacks the
tools to respond to the current spill is the di-

rect result of a pattern of investment that
prioritizes ultra-deep drilling over ultra-safe
drilling.
The SOS Act will not increase costs to tax-
payers. The bill is paid for by redirecting roy-
alty payments that are now being used to sub-
sidize industry development of deepwater drill-
ing technologies, something that industry has
the resources and incentives to perform on its
own. The SOS Act will ensure that the tech-
nologies we will need to respond to the next
oil spill are being developed and tested with
