

NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0186.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - APPENDIX

regions where experience reveals that the
media of amicable informal settlement have
not been used nearly as extensively as in
other regions. Informal disposition is a par-
t.cularly honorable method of ending a dis-
pute in the field of labor-management rela-
tions because in so many instances it is not
feasible for the contesting parties to sever
1ieir relationship and it is often desirable
for the disputants to agree to make up
quickly.
Of course, there will be many situations
under the new act which raise novel ques-
tions of law that may not be subject to
amicable and informal settlement, or the
parties just cannot ,gree with the region on
its factual analysis. But after   thorough
study of our regional experience under Op-
eration Challenge, the Office of the General
Counsel is now proposing that more effort be
made in a number of regions to encourage
rettlements of disputes that ought to be
settled.
In each region all cases that, after inves-
tigation, have been found to have merit will
go in an informal fashion before a settle-
ment officer who will usually be the regional
director himself.
In other words, after a determination that
sn unfair labor practice charge has merit,
the parties should go almost immediately
into conference with the regional director
or his representative. This unquestionably
is the practice in many regions and it will
become the practice in many more regions.
Regional officers will know that they cannot
force settlement, nor can this Agency medi-
ate disputes arising out of economic ques-
tions. We shall seek, however, to offer liti-
gants practical methods for obtaining more
speedy justice in cases arising under the act.
It is not necessary to give this confer-
ence a special name. It is an informal pro-
cedure through which the issues in a dis-
pute may be truly joined. In the process,
unquestionably the relative wisdom of set-
tlement over any other course of action will
be considered and encouraged. If settle-
ment is not reached, the conference will at
least have the desirable effect of sharpening
the issues and eliminating matters that could
be taken care of in a pretrial conference.
We are all aware that the most litigated
etatute on the books is the Taft-Hartley Act.
As a result there is a continuous outpouring
of cases which find their way into the judi-
cial processes and add to the burdens of
the judicial system. We have a duty, I be-
lieve, to do what we can fairly and equita-
bly to minimize the number of cases which
must enter the judicial stream. That, as I
understand it, is one of the purposes of the
administrative process.
There is no magical formula for avoiding
controversy and litigation or encouraging
informal disposition of disputes. If there
were, there would be no problem. For suc-
cess, each regional office must have the con-
fidence of the public it serves. The aim of
projects such as Operation 60 and Operation
Challenge has been to improve regional of-
fice quality and operating proficiency so as
to merit this confidence.
If we are to be accorded the special rec-
ognition due an administrative organization
because of its expertise in its particular field,
then it is our duty to act as experts and to
be experts. The avoidance of unnecessary
litigation which taxes the facilities of the
organization and of the courts as well, is,
and should be, a part of that expertise.
Improvement in techniques and facilities
for the informal resolution of disputes aris-
ing under the Taft-Hartley Act should re-
sult in derivative administrative benefits.
Experience has taught us that there Is less
Lendency to file the frivolous or strategic un-
fair labor practice charge when it is known
that it will be investigated immediately.
With the clearing up of the trial calendars,
it is not unreasonable to expect that if there

are fewer cases to be tried, cases can be
eliminated earlier which are strategic only
and are not settled until "high on the court-
house steps."
In addressing the American Bar Associa-
tion in 1958, the Chief Justice of the United
States concluded his remarks on the need
for improvements in judicial administration
by saying:
"Finally, I urge all of you-in every juris-
diction-to fight court congestion as you
would a plague, and to eliminate stoppages
and delays from whatever cause, regardless
of the effort called for or the personal feel-
ings involved."
We may well ask whether this appeal is not
equally applicable to the interrelated ad-
ministrative process. With this question I
shall leave this subject, but not without
first thanking you for the opportunity of as-
sessing the general situation of the place of
procedural improvements in the regional per-
formance of the NLRB; one of our basic
current problems.
I shall be pleased to answer any questions
you may have, if I can, concerning the office's
procedures, or any developments In the sub-
stantive law arising under the new act.
The Lowell, Mass., Fire
SPEECH
OF
HON. EDITH      NOURSE ROGERS
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, July 1, 1960
Mrs. ROGERS of Massachusetts. Mr.
Speaker, I spoke on Monday of the tre-
mendously spectacular fire that took
place just two buildings from my office
in Lowell, Mass. I spoke of the heroism
of the chief of the fire department, Mr.
Fracis Kelleher, who directed the fire-
fighting. In the beginning the fire was
completely out of hand. It was a roar-
ing, raging fire. It did not seem possible
that anyone could survive. The picture
which I have in my hand shows the fire
when it was raging at its worst, but the
firemen, with the help of other coop-
erating firemen from other towns in
my district got it under control and
eventually put it out. They performed
herculean service.
I spoke of certain persons the other
day who showed great heroism ard great
executive ability. I would like to speak
again of the head of the fire depart-
ment at Lowell, who directed all the fire-
fighting activities, and of the firefight-
ers from other towns in my district and
from the U.S. Air Force firefighters from
Bedford in my district who volunteered
their services. I would like to speak also
of the action by the police department
in Lowell that worked tirelessly, getting
people out of the way who had been
overcome by the fire, by the fumes, by
the smoke. And I would like to tell the
people here that nobody was seriously
injured and nobody was killed. It is
almost beyond belief that that could
have happened in such a raging fire. It
was a miracle. But the firemen put a
moat of water around the building.
I would like to speak of the very great
and efficient action of our postmaster at
Lowell, Mr. James Gallagher, who sent

away his disabled veterans who worked
there, those who had any difficulty with
their lungs. Then he put one of the post
office custodians, Mr. Kenneth Earle, and
Arthur Garrabedian on the roof with
hose   and   fire-protection  apparatus.
Nothing happened to the post office
building. That would have gone also if
it had not been that they had got the
fire under control or if the wind had
changed.
Then there was the auditorium be-
yond, the Lowell Auditorium. That
would have gone, too, if they had not
had the fire under control.
I am so sincerely grateful to the
Lowell people for their wonderful self-
sacrifice and their real heroism and for
the way in which they adjusted them-
selves to the demands of this terribly
spectacular fire.
The Lowell Sun Newspaper Building
where I have my office, was so very near
the fire and the people in it, like the
owners, Mr. John and Mr. Clement Cos-
tello, behaved remarkably when they
had burning sticks coming over on their
window ledges. But still they kept the
fire away, and remained calm.
I have such pride, Mr. Speaker, In my
Lowell people. I wish you all knew
them.   They   are modest and great
Americans.
Colorful "First" for Greater Portland
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
OF
HON. JAMES C. OLIVER
OF MAINE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Saturday, July 2, 1960
Mr. OLIVER. Mr. Speaker, on July
1 of this year, there appeared in the
Portland, Maine, Press Herald an arti-
cle describing a picturesque and colorful
telephone book cover, depicting many
aspects of Maine's economy. The occa-
sion for this "first" in the area served
by the New England Telephone & Tele-
graph Co. is the 200th anniversary of
Cumberland County. I commend the
progressive officials of the phone com-
pany for this excellent example of par-
ticipation in the ceremony of the area
they represent. The article follows:
GREATER PORTLAND PHONE SUBSCRIBERS To
GET COLORFUL DIRECTORIES NEXT WEEK
(By Charles C. Sutton)
Greater Portland telephone subscribers
are in for a colorful "first."
New directories, to be issued next week,
will have a full color cover instead of the
traditional pale green.
Dana A. Jordan, Portland manager of the
New England Telephone & Telegraph Co.,
said Thursday the colorfully designed cov-
ers are the first ones ever printed for the
New England Telephone & Telegraph syS-
tem.
"Actually they are an outgrowth of the
1959 directories which featured black and
white designs," Jordan said.
In addition to a multitude of colors, the
covers give a plug to the 200th anniversary
of Cumberland County by displaying the
celebration's seal in a prominent place.
Joseph A. Kilbride, chairman of the Cum-
berland County anniversary, told Jordan his

A5S6S

July 5



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0187.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - APPENDIX

,ommittee was very pleased the telephone
-ompany dedicated the full-color cover to the
zounty's bicentennial.
William A. Hatch, assistant executive man-
iger of the Maine Publicity Bureau, con-
,ratulated Jordan on the "spanking" new
,over.
He wrote Jordan:
"This year, Portland, Cumberland County,
uid the State will get an even greater boost
Irom this beautiful, full color, layout fea-
uring many phases of Maine's economy."
Hatch referred to the numerous sketches
ihowing Maine products, vacational attrib-
ates, and industries.
He also noted the book was printed on
.aine-made paper. New England Telephone
Sr Telegraph Co. spends $5 million a year for
Maine papers.)
Hatch also said the book would be of
great promotional value to the State.
According to Jordan 100,000 new telephone
books are being published. He said 5,000
will be sent out of State to libraries, indus-
tries, hotels, chambers of commerce, and
others.
Aside from the cover, Jordan said the
book would be slightly larger--some 1,500
new customers will be listed.
"It will have 133 pages of numbers in-
stead of the present 127," he added.
The front section will also have more in-
formation on dialing, telephone procedures,
and so forth, and a larger area for writing
down emergency numbers.
Others to get an early glimpse of the cover
were Charles 0. Spear, Jr., chairman of the
county   commissioners;  Mitchell   Cope,
chairman of the Portland City Council; and
William S. Linnell, president of the Greater
Portland Chamber of Commerce.
Spear  said  the   commissioners   were
"pleased and proud" of the new cover. Cope
found it "very attractive" and a good adver-
tisement for Portland and the surrounding
area.
Linnel termed it a rare Incident when a
public utility puts so much effort and con-
sideration into publicizing the area it serves.
The new directories will arrive in Port-
land Tuesday by truck. Distribution will
start Wednesday morning.
Price Bill Strengthens Relationships Be-
tween United States and Ryukyu Is-
lands
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
OF
HON. DANIEL K. INOUYE
OF HAWAII
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Saturday, July 2, 1960
Mr. INOUYE. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1157,
the Price bill, a bill to assist in the eco-
nomic development of the Ryukyu Is-
lands, is now the law of the land. The
author of this bill is the most distin-
.uished Congressman from the State of
Illinois, the Honorable MELVIN PRICE.
Many Members of this body have had
the opportunity of visiting the Ryukyu
Islands in the recent years. I am most
certain that all of such Members will
agree that of all the legislation relat-
ing to the Ryukyus that we have con-
3idered in the body, the Price bill has
lenerated the greatest interest and con-
cern among the Ryukyuans. The news
f the enactment of the Price bill has
Deen received in the Ryukyus with great
joy and favor. The Price bill will un-

doubtedly foster better and friendlier
American-Ryukyuan relationship. The
Congress of the United States owes a
gTeat debt of gratitude to the Honorable
MELVIN PRICE for his deep understanding
of and the forward looking approach to
the problems of the Ryukyuans. Re-
cently, the gentleman from Illinois re-
ceived two telegrams from the Ryukyus.
One, from the Honorable Seisaku Ota,
the chief executive of the government
of the Ryukyu Islands; and the other
from General Booth, U.S. High Commis-
sioner. These telegrams very clearly ex-
press the great gratitude of the Ryukyu-
ans. I am taking leave to insert these
two telegrams into the RECORD for con-
sideration by the Members of this body.
The telegram to Congressman PRICE
from the High Commissioner, General
Booth, follows:
Deeply appreciate your sustained interest
in the Ryukyu Islands. Passage of the Price
bill is being interpreted locally as a reflec-
tion of your personal interest in the welfare
and well-being of the Ryukyuan people and
this strengthens the relationships between
the United States and the Ryukyus. I have
transmitted your message to the Chief Ex-
ecutive and he has asked me to express his
gratitude. You will be hearing soon from
him personally.
Subsequently, Congressman PRICE re-
ceived the following message from the
chief executive, Seisako Ota:
We are highly gratified that H.R. 1157 was
finally approved by the Congress, thanks to
your continued efforts. This legislation is
sure to promote greatly economic and social
development of the Ryukyus. Your accom-
plishments for the Ryukyus Islands will long
live in the mind of the Ryukyuan people.
On behalf of all the Ryukyuan people I
hereby express our hearty gratitude for your
distinguished services.
Problems of Safety in the Electric
Utility Industry
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
OF
HON. THOMAS L. ASHLEY
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Saturday, July 2, 1960
Mr. ASHLEY. Mr. Speaker, the mat-
ter of industrial safety is one which
affects the livelihood, well-being and
happiness of most American families.
It is a matter to which this Congress has
directed considerable attention in the
past and it is a matter which requires
our continued concern and considera-
tion. Nothing could be more clear than
that safety standards and regulations
which may be adequate today will be
rendered obsolete by the technology of
tomorrow.
Mr. Speaker, this is particularly true
in the electric utility field. The respon-
sibility for safety in this area is extra-
ordinary in that accident hazard is
inherent in the duties and service per-
formed by utility workers. An employee
of an electric utility company must be
concerned not only for his own life, but
for the safety of his coworkers and the
general public as well. Making this

triple responsibility even more demand-
ing is the serious handicap under which
the utility worker must perform his work
as a result of inadequate safety measures
and out dated safety equipment.
In the electric utility industry, it is
essential that limitations be placed on
the number of consecutive hours worked,
that certain procedures be established
and followed in deenergizing electrical
conductors or equipment for mainte-
nance purposes, and that safety require-
ments be established for work within
contact distance or for equipment ener-
gized at a high voltage. This giant in-
dustry, while striving to satisfy the
increasing demands of its consumers by
expanding the systems of distribution
and modernizing the techniques of gen-
erating power, has failed for budgetary
or other reasons to demonstrate a pro-
portionate concern for the safety of its
employees. Thus, voltage limitations
are designed for the lower primary volt-
ages of a bygone era and enclosures of
modern high speed generators and tur-
bines do not provide adequate protection
from moving parts.
The neglect of the electric utility in-
dustry in this area becomes clear from
a study of safety records-which, when
available, are far from complete. For
example, the Accident Prevention Com-
mittee of the Edison Electric Institute
published a summary report of fatalities
which listed 136 fatalities for 1955. This
figure, while alarmingly high, includes
only members of the Edison Electric In-
stitute. What about the fatalities of the
nonmembers-independents, municipal-
ities, REA   and   other cooperatives?
Figures for these utility companies are
not readily available but one can easily
imagine the impact their statistics would
have on the overall picture.
The number of fatal injuries reflects
only a part of the disturbing accident
figures. Included in this grim picture
must be the accidents which leave vic-
tims either totally or partially disabled.
In 1958, 7.1 percent of the disabling in-
juries in the private electric light and
power utility industry resulted in perma-
nent impairment. This was a higher
permanent impairment ratio than oc-
curred in any other section of the
transportation and public utility indus-
try, the contract construction industry
and, with few exceptions, the mining
industry. The average time length of
disability per injury was 226 days.
In my opinion, the accident rate itself
is compelling reason for consideration of
legislation to establish a uniform code
of safety regulations for the electric
utility industry. But the tragic accident
record has equally discouraging col-
lateral aspects which must also be con-
sidered. Economic loss to the worker,
his family, the company and the coin-
munity is staggering. The accident rec-
ord of one Ohio company-the Columbus
& Southern Ohio Electric Co-affords
an example of how great this wage-time
loss is in terms of lost purchasing power
and diminished consumer demand.
Statistics for the Columbus district for
1955 show a loss of 6,263 days, based on
an average hourly wage rate of $2.09,
amounting to a total wage loss to injured

1960

A5   9



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0188.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - APPENDIX

employees of $104,717.36. In 1956, the
Nvage loss rose to $153,410.32 when In-
jured employees lost 8,837 workdays.
Again, these are only one company's
fioures. And, of course, there are no
Statistics, figures, reports or records by
v hich we can measure the discomfort
and insecurity of a worker and his fam-
ily during the days lost, nor is there any
way to ease the pain when a family loses
il.; breadwinner completely.
Several recommendations have been
put forth for remedial legislation by
Congress which would improve safety
requirements and conditions in the util-
ity industry. At this point, it might be
well to recall that it was not too many
years ago   that mine workers were
urgently pleading for better safety regu-
lations and that the 77th Congress saw
fit to enact legislation resulting in vastly
improved working conditions.
As a first step, uniform minimum
safety standards should be established.
The present safety record and the
miserable failure of many companies to
follow adequate safety procedures are
evidence enough of the need for indus-
trywide safety regulations. Such regu-
lations could be either statutory require-
ments or regulations prescribed by a
Government agency. The statutory re-
quirements might be used for certain
basic rules, such as limitation on the
number of consecutive hours worked,
materials used for protection of wires,
and so forth, but the establishment of a
safety agency would appear to offer sev-
eral advantages. Such an agency, com-
posed of persons familiar with the field
- of industrial safety and in particular
with the problems of the electric utility
industry would be competent to estab-
lish effective safety regulations and be-
cause of its continuing responsibility in
the field would be able to modify and
streamline safety requirements to keep
Dace with technical innovations.
Closely related to the establishment
of a code of minimum safety regulations
is the necessity for adequate inspection.
Inspection of safety equipment to deter-
mine whether it meets standards estab-
lished by the safety agency, and appro-
priate approval stamps issued to the
equipment manufacturer should be re-
quired. Inspections should be made of
electric utility plants to determine ex-
istence and degree of danger. In cases
of immediate hazard the agency should
be empowered to order the removal of
workers from the area as well as require
corrective action. Inspection would be
an essential tool in the enforcement of
minimum safety regulations.
Accident reporting would be a third
arm of the projected safety program for
electric  utility  industry.   Included
within the statutory framework of the
safety agency should be authority to re-
quire that all accidents be immediately
reported and a uniform method of ac-
cident recording should be established
for this purpose. Although most States
require a report of accidents and fatali-
ties, the time lapse between occurrence
of the accident and filing of the report
varies with each jurisdiction. In addi-
tion, the accident records of the State

utility commissions are often incomplete
and not readily available.
The effectiveness of any safety pro-
gram depends in large measure upon the
expertness with which accident and
other investigations are conducted. Far
too many accidents are now attributed
simply to that nebulous cause-human
error. The challenge is to determine
what factors cause or contribute to this
human error and to define areas of acci-
dent potential. Investigation of every
fatal mishap and spot checks of other
less serious accidents by trained person-
nel are needed to track down accident
causes and furnish vital accident pre-
vention information.
These, then, are a few of the possible
approaches to improving the safety rec-
ord of electric utility companies. Per-
haps the most serious problem in initiat-
ing a safety program is to determine just
where the responsibility lies. Voluntary
action by individual companies has, to
date, been inadequate and unsatisfac-
tory. Employee-company safety com-
mittees are desirable but hardly the an-
swer to a nationwide problem. It would
appear, therefore, that the existing ac-
cident record in the electric utility in-
dustry calls for responsible Government
action. In the absence of an effective
industry program, it is only at the Gov-
ernment level that safety standards can
be instituted and enforced. Creation of
a new Government regulatory agency or
additional authority delegated to an ex-
isting agency is necessary for the per-
formance of the functions which I have
suggested. Provision could thus be made
for both a safety agency and for a board
of review to be staffed by company and
worker representatives.
There is ample precedent for authority
to regulate within the utility industry.
The Federal Coal Mine Inspection Act of
1941 and the 1952 Federal Coal Mine
Safety Act are similar legislative actions
which have been taken in another in-
dustry. Although the electric utility
worker is not faced with the kind of ac-
cident that reach the catastrophic pro-
portions of the major mine disasters, the
overall record of deaths and disabling ac-
cidents is great enough to warrant con-
sideration of the advisability of legisla-
tion in this important field.
Senator Kennedy and Civil Rights
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
OF
HON. JOHN BRADEMAS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Saturday, July 2, 1960
Mr. BRADEMAS. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased to insert in the RECORD an excel-
lent editorial from the June 29, 1960,
issue of the La Porte (Ind.) Herald-
Argus, a first-class newspaper published
in my district, concerning the views of
the distinguished Senator from Massa-
chusetts, the Honorable JOHN F. KEN-
NEDY, on the important issue of civil
rights.

As the La Porte Herald-Argus says,
Senator KENNEDY'S recent speech In
Washington in the presence of African
diplomats "added to his stature as a
politician who speaks out bluntly and
courageously on basic principles to which
he adheres."
The editorial follows:
KENNEDY AND INTEGRATION
At a recent Washington luncheon and In
the presence of African diplomats from both
established and newly independent nations
of that continent, Senator KENNEDY added
to his stature as a politician who speaks out
bluntly and courageously on basic principles
to which he adheres. His forthright pro-
nouncement of his antipathy to segregation
was certain to    arouse heightened anger
among the Dixiecrats and other Deep South
traditionalists who bitterly insist there will
be no change in the racial situation--ever.
The Senator might be accused by his po-
litical foes in the Democratic Party of shoot-
ing down a strawman Inasmuch as the Deep
South  Democratic politicians consistently
oppose him for the presidential nomination
and want either Senator JOHNSON or some
completely unreconstructed rebel like Sen-
ator EASTLAND, but at least the Massachusetts
candidate made it crystal clear he favors a
more aggressive program by the Federal Gov-
ernment to help bring about integration and
equal rights.
This Nation's efforts, he said at the lunch-
eon, "must increase to achieve equal access
to the voting booth, to the schoolroom, to
Jobs, to housing and. the public facilities,
Including lunch   counters." The Senator
continued by endorsing the sit-in as a legit-
imate, peaceful way to win equality. "It's
a good sign-a sign of increased responsibil-
ity, of good citizenship, of the American
spirit come alive again," he declared in re-
ferring further to Negro students and their
sit-in demonstrations In eating places.
The Senator also aimed a dart at the
Union of South Africa's apartheid policy of
separateness for Negroes, and told the Afri-
can diplomats that the U.S. must have a
threefold role in Africa, to aid in education
there, to help Africans to have more food and
to aid with development capital for young
African nations.
In trying to assess the political advantages,
and those are always a factor when a man
seeks the Presidency as ardently as does
KENNEDY, his luncheon remarks place him
solidly in that segment of his party which
is liberal in its race relations attitude and
believes the United States is lagging badly
in its attention to human rights and mate-
rial devlopment where races of color are
concerned. His    attitude should further
strengthen his already considerable strength
in northern urban Democratic ranks, it also
represents an effort to broaden the image of
the candidate as a man well aware of his
Nation's global tasks and responsibilities.
Why an Apology?
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
OF
HON. EDGAR W. HIESTAND
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Saturday, July 2, 1960
Mr. HIESTAND. Mr. Speaker, under
unanimous consent to insert my remarks
in the Appendix of the RECORD, I Would
include a timely and important editorial
viewpoint by Mr. George Todt: columnist

A5S70

J1 ly 5



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0189.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - APPENDIX

'or the Valley Times, published in North
Hollywood, Calif., and circulated in my
listrict.
The U-2 incident has been viciously
ittacked by the press. Here is a news-
paperman's refreshing view:
WHY AN APOLOGY?
(By George Todt)
"What's sauce for the goose is sauce for
the gander."-American proverb.
The asinine nonsense that this Nation
)ught to bow its Collective head in shame
ind mortification over the much-discussed
Lockheed U-2 reconnaissance plane inci-
lent is almost too idiotic to comment upon.
Mmost, but not quite.
Why should we apologize for "getting thar
lustest with the mostest," as capable old
General Forrest used to say? The Reds, par-
Aicularly the Soviet Union, have been giving
as the business for years. They had their
;pies here even during World War II, while
we were busy feeding and saving them from
Adolf Hitler.
Ever bear the old saw about "biting the
band that feeds you"? Ask the Soviets how
this is done. They are past masters of the
game. Their treachery is only matched by
their ingratitude.
I was merely one of many millions of
Americans who fought for our country in
the last war, but I would like to have the
privilege of saying just one word to Mr. K.
now as he berates President Eisenhower over
the U-2 incident. And that one word is:
Phooey. Maybe an even better word choice
would be: Phony.
Either way is all right with me. As
Khrushchev and his many heroes of the
Soviet Union scream like wounded eagles
because our planes have demonstrated their
capabillty to penetrate the aerial defenses
Df the U.S.S.R., we can afford to be happy
about it.
I think we have a better chance for peace
now that the "Butcher of the Ukraine" has
the picture of U.S. airpower In better perspec-
tive. Our planes have been going too high
for Mr. K.'s vaunted rockets to knock down
in the past. How could he stop a mass at-
tack by SAC in the near future? (Provided
he asks for it.)
What right has Mr. K. to protest our gain-
ing intelligence of his installations? Hasn't
te been doing the same to us? What about
our stolen atom secrets? The spy rings op-
erating out of Red consulates and embassies?
The quisling "Communist Party of the
United States," an information-gathering ap-
paratus for the massive war machine housed
in the Kremlin?
What has now been revealed, to Mr. K.'s
vast chagrin, is that modern American tebh-
nology housed in a high-flying U-2 can take
as many pictures as thousands of Communist
'pies operating  on   the  ground   in  the
United States. We have simply beaten them
It their own intelligence game.
It is all very well for Khrushchev to insist
that we should not penetrate the skies over
.ussia to take pictures of his military in-
;tallations. But what about the numerous
land-based Red spies here? Is it right to ask
;hat one of us give up his advantage, and not
the other one? I, for one, do not think so.
Now is the time for us to put the old
vIlosiac Code into practice: an eye for an eye,
tooth for a tooth. If the Reds want us to
wit'adraw aerial reconnaissance flights-let
,hem withdraw their quisling party espionage
Ipparatus from our soil.
It can be done whenever Moscow gives the
sod *to its flunkies in the United States.
Ihe later invariably do whatever instructed
3y their Kremlin masters. So why not bar-
rain together?
Let's permanently withdraw our U-2 flights
)nly on condition that the Kremlin make
olcassions to us, too. Let the Soviets give

the order to the comrades in the United
States to cease and desist their fifth column
activities forthwith. Otherwise more flights
from our side over the U.S.Sa.
Need for Coodinated Defense of the Free
World
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
OF
HON. JESSICA McC. WEIS
OF NEW YORZ
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Saturday, July 2, 1960
Mrs. WEIS. Mr. Speaker, I wish to
draw the attention of this body to a most
timely and significant address prepared
for delivery by my predecessor in the
House, Senator KENxEvI B. KEATING be-
fore the New York State Convention of
the Italian-American War Veterans, at
Rochester, N.Y., on June 18. Senator
KEATING was unable to attend this con-
vention in person, because of the ex-
tended sessions of the Senate. In his
absence, the Senator's speech was read
by Judge John J. Lomenzo, an eminent
Rochester jurist who has long been an
outstanding leader in the Italian-Amer-
ican Veterans organization.
The theme of Senator KEATING'S ad-
dress is the need for the coordinated de-
fense of the free world in the face of the
massive and single-minded Communist
plan of global conquest.
Mr. Speaker, under leave previously
granted, I ask that this address by Sen-
ator KEATING be printed in the Appendix
of the RECORD.
ADDRESs BY SENATOR KENNETH B. KEATING,
PREPARED FOR DELIVERy AT THE DEPARTMENT
OF NEW YORK CON.rENTION OF THE ITALIAN-
AMERICAN WAR VETERANS OF THE UNITED
STATES, HOTEL PowEsS, ROCHESTER, N.Y.,
JUNE 18, 1960
I am always happy to talk to a group of
veterans. You men have fought for our
freedom. For that reason you have a sharp-
ened sense of what it means to defend some-
thing you hold dear. That is why you have
organized-because you know that freedom
is not something you lock up in a vault-not
something you can forget about once you
have won it. And It is about winning it
and holding it that I want to talk to you
'tonight.
In these times we live in, defense is no
longer a purely military term. The man
with a gun-the man who fires a missile--
the man who commands a submarine-each
of- them is only a cog in the total machinery
of defense-and that machinery is so ex-
panded, so complex, that every American
citizen, whether he realizes it or not, is a
part of the defense posture that we main-
tain against the potential enemy.
We must realize this new concept of de-
fense. We must act as though it existed-
because it does. The battlefield we used
to know were specific areas of terrain or of
ocean. There is only one battle area today,
and it is the globe.'
There are only two opposing forces, only
two types of fighter-on the one hand the
man who is battling to gverrun the free
world, on the other the man who stands
defending the ramparts of freedom, and
says, "They shall not pass." It is that
simple. It is that tremendous-that fate-
ful-and don't think it isn't a war because
you can't hear the whine of bullets, or see

men die around you. Men are dying-but
it is a death of the spirit-the death of
those who were once free, but who have
been overrun by the advance patrols of
tyranny.
The great challlenge to men like your-
selves-to men who have known war-is to
alert those about you to the tremendous fact
of the reality of the silent struggle in which
our lives, our futures, the futures of all hu-
manity, are involved this hour, this day.
And if they don't think freedom is at war,
that freedom must defend itself-tell them
to read the casualty list-give them the
names of the battle losses-Hungary, Poland,
Rumania, China, Lithuania-and all the rest
of the fallen. And show them Cuba, mor-
tally wounded, struggling before our very
eyes. This is not a dry run.
Freedom is being shot dead-and because
the weapons are lies and promises, and trade
concessions and duplicity doesn't make the
killing any less brutal, any less final,
In our early history we could see the
enemy we fought. They marched abreast
against us, and it was their markmanship
and courage against ours. Today, we face
a ghost army across the world-an unseen
enemy whose battle plan is precise, intensive,
and devastating.    They know    what they
want-a Communist world-and all the fire
of their energy, all the scheming of their
intellect are directed toward the accom-
plishment of that mission.
That is what I meant by the new concept
of defense. It must be new-must be re-
tooled-to cope with this new kind of men-
ace. And that defense doesn't begin in an
arms factory-or on a launching site. It
begins in the minds and in the hearts of the
American people. It begins when we burn
into those minds and hearts the sense of
danger that exists, and the critical and com-
pelling need to face up to the life-and-death
implications of that danger.
The first thing many Americans must do
Is to wash their minds clean of outmoded
ideas of what war is, what danger is. Vic-
tory is no longer something that can be
turned out of factories operating on round-
the-clock shifts. War today has a new di-
mension, and    that new     dimension   has
changed everything. The tree of freedom
isn't blasted by a bomb. It is infiltrated l'y
thousands of termites-and, if left un-
checked, they do the work of a bomb, silent-
ly but no less thoroughly. And these ter-
mites fatten on each freedom tree that
falls-and are the stronger to attack new
trees-to lay waste the entire orchard of
human freedom.
If we want a more recent, more striking
example of the Communist technique of
subversion-of their termite activities-we
have only to consider the current situation
in Japan. Red China and Moscow set up
these demonstrations, planned their strategy
