capacity to surprise visitors who, even
momentarily, leave its main traffic art-
eries and travel for a few miles into other
regions of the State. In the Saturday
Evening Post of July 16 writer Roul Tun-
ley confesses that he had once believed
that there was little more to Jersey than
the landscape seen from the New Jersey
Turnpike. His article also reports, how-
ever, among other things:
I might have gone on sticking to that well-
trod path and feeling I knew all about the
State if one day I hadn't visited a class-
mate who had just bought a farm near the
Delaware River, a few miles above Trenton.
When I saw the area I couldn't believe my
eyes. Here were green, rolling hills, heavily
wooded and full of game. Here were farm-
houses straight out of Currier and Ives. And
as I came upon an old covered bridge, six
deer vaulted across the road in front of my
car. That settled it. I had to have a stake
in those hills. Not long afterward I built
a cabin as a weekend retreat.
In time, of course, the inevitable hap-
pened. The retreat became so irresistible
that I made it my permanent home. And
as a full-time resident I saw the surprises
really start coming. Those forests, for one
thing. One tract alone-the famous Pine'
Barrens in central Jersey--comprise 1,250,000
acres, about 25 percent of the whole State.
One can travel for miles in the Pine Barrens
without seeing a house. The inhabitants,
known as Pineys, are a breed apart. They
are primarily of Anglo-Saxon origin, and
their isolation has been so complete for cen-
turies that even their language, like the
Kentucky mountaineers', is a throwback to
other days. Not long ago I was traveling in
the Pines with the State forester, Alden Cot-
trell. We stopped at a remote general store
not far from Batsto to ask the way to a
certain charcoal furnace.
"Follow down the road a piece and go to
the second pair of banisters," said the man.
"Take the sand road to the right, but look
out for the cripple or you'll get set. You'll
come to the pit in a half mile."
As far as I was concerned, I might have
been on the moon. However, my guide, who
understands the Pineys' language, translated
for me. "Banisters" are guardrals; "crip-
ples" are low, wet places; "get set" means to
get stuck, and a "pit" is a charcoal furnace.
As surprising as the Jersey forests are the
Jersey farms. They still comprise 35 per-
cent of the State's land area, though you'd
never know it when speeding along the cor-
ridor. From a train window or U.S. Route
1, the whole State looks urban-sleazily
urban. What I learned ultimately, however,
was that the corridor is, in reality, a nar-
row, concrete-laced strip of land only 15
miles wide. It looks the way it does because
60 percent of the State's population and the
vast majority of its factories have crowded
into it for convenience's sake. Actually, the
slender strip is a kind of false front, like one
of those western movie sets.
And behind the front are some of the
stubbornest farmers in America. Stubborn
because they are determined to stick to the
soil and have refused as much as $25,000 an
acre along   the main    highways. Conse-
quently, in order to survive at all when faced
with soaring taxes and the encroachment of

industry and split-levels, they have been
forced to become the most mechanized and
efficient farmers in the Nation. And they
have done just that. In 1958 they achieved
the highest income per acre In the United
States-$195.
No one will deny that New Jersey is highly
industrial too. Although    it's the fifth-
smallest State, it's the fifth-largest in per-
capita income. And much of this is because
of its industrial virtuosity. New    Jersey
makes everything from girdles to electronic
brains. In chemicals it leads the Nation.
And in research it also holds the first posi-
tion: 10 percent of all U.S. industrial re-
search money is spent in New Jersey.
One of the secrets of the State's astonish-
ing material success with so few natural re-
sources is, of course, its strategic location.
Its industries are within an overnight truck
drive of one-third of the Nation's population.
Cameramen are also finding out about
New    Jersey.    Brett   Weston, famed
photographer from California, visited
Cranbury, N.J., recenty. The July 1960
issue of U.S. Camera carries his photos
of idylic small town scenes-the front
porch, the variety retail store, the quiet
corner of an old cemetery.
Mr. President, to hasten the growing
realization that New Jersey is a State
rich in quiet beauty, I ask that the article
be printed in the Appendix of the REC-
ORD.
There being no obection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:
CRANBURY BY WESTON-THOUGH JUsT A SHORT
WAY FROM THE WORLD'S LARGEST CITY, THIS
HISTORIC VILLAGE IN NEw JERSEY SEEMS
UNCHANGED BY PASSING TIME
Not many people have ever heard of Cran-
bury, N.J.-a village that history remem-
bers but time forgot. Not 2 hours from
Manhattan, not 2 miles from the sweep of
the great turnpike down New Jersey, sur-
rounded by lush potato, wheat, and barley
fields and by an increasingly number of in-
dustrial research  plants, Cranbury dozes
quietly in its white houses, its dark shutters
asleep against the sun.
Go through it by car and you drive along
the past. Main Street was once a section of
the old King George's Road, the chief link
between New York and Philadelphia. There
in some talk that Benjamin Franklin once
walked the road. Today it is green and
peaceful, lined with great elms.
Drive past the inn, or stop-it's open still.
Yet It quartered Washington's troops on the
eve of the Battle of Monmouth. Across the
street Is the lirst Presbyterian Church,
founded in 1734 by men who, "being stead-
fast believers in a free church and the
privileges of civil liberty, here sought a
refuge from religious persecution."
Cranbury isn't far from where Washing-
ton crossed the Delaware, and Revolutionary
battles raged even closer by at Princeton,
only 6 miles to the west.
Yes, it's an old village, liking the old ways.
And quiet. Television aerials, but no movie
theater. Church socials. The undertaker's
is the oldest firm in town. And prosperous
enough. Just one industry-a great rose
farm that ships 10,000 blooms a day. For
the rest, each family knows the others, and
most feel it's a good life.
And that's the way its citizens want to
keep it. If you covet a plot of land or one of
its houses, you'll pay New York prices-if
you can find a house for sale. If you build,
you'll dig your own well for water so as not
to deplete the town water supply from Gran-
bury Brook.
A host of discouragements will hedge
your notions to change the town by so much
as one new house or citizen. If a building
of Victorian vintage is after all razed or

A 60 O



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0379.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - APPENDIX

altered, no modern structure will replace it:
a building in Colonial style will appear-
white clapboard with black trim. As one
teenager put it, "We're against change,
against building, and against tourists."
Address by Hon. Robert A. Lovett, Former
Secretary of Defense
EXTENSION OF REMARKS
oF
HON. HENRY M. JACKSON
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
Thursday, August 11, 1960
Mr. JACKSON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to have printed in the
Appendix of the RECORD the speech of the
Honorable Robert A. Lovett, former Sec-
retary of Defense, at the George C. Mar-
shall memorial dinner, August 10, during
the annual meeting of the Association of
the U.S. Army.
Mr. Lovett's speech is a stirring docu-
ment, one filled with warm tribute to a
great soldier-statesman, General Mar-
shall, and one containing sound advice
on vital defense matters. I commend Mr.
Lovett's speech to all of my colleagues
and to the American people.
Appropriately, the Association of the
U.S. Army awarded to Mr. Lovett its
first George Catlett Marshall medal "for
selfless service to the United States of
America." I know of no living American
more deserving of this recognition.
There being no objection, the speech
was ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:
ADDRESS OF HON. ROBERT A. LOVETT, FORMER
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, AT GEORGE C. MAR-
SHALL MEMORIAL DINNER DURING ANNUAL
MEETING OF ASsOCIATION OF THE U.S. ARMY,
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 10, 1960
If a man is very fortunate he may have,
once in a lifetime, the opportunity to work in
a cause he believes in with all his heart and
soul and under the leadership of a man whom
he admires, respects, and comes to love. I
have had that great privilege three times:
Once, with Henry L. Stimson and, twice, with
General Marshall, and, until the day I die, I
will be grateful to them for letting me see, at
first hand, the qualities of greatness and true
leadership. Both these extraordinary men
had much in common. The strengths of both
stem from the fundamentals of sterling char-
acter. Both had unshakable integrity.. Both
were fearless of the consequences of a course
of action they felt in duty bound to take.
Working close to them was, therefore, a stim-
ulating and inspiring experience, in part be-
cause their own personal standards were so
high that, unless you were a hopeless clod,
you had to raise your own. Service with
them could not fail to refine and add balance
to one's sense of values.
Since October 1959 I have wanted to share
with General Marshall's old comrades in arms
some memories of him and to reminisce about
the little-known man, behind the serious and
dignified exterior, whom the world regarded
with respect, admiration, and something akin
to awe. The first of the memorial dinners
seems to me to be the proper time and place
to do so and to show you one or two vignettes
of this remarkable man whom you honor
tonight and to remind you of some of his
characteristics which made him so inspiring
a figure.
I have no words to express my own feeling
of admiration, gratitude, and affection for

this noble man. Perhaps it is as well, for
what could my words--or indeed, any words,
add to the stature of General Marshall-
Chief of Staff, General of the Army, Secretary
of Defense, Secretary of State, citizen and
recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize.
The whole world has recognized his mag-
nificent accomplishments in the service of
his country and the civilized world has
sought to honor him. His public virtues have
been extolled by the great of every country
who have paid him homage and, in almost
unmatched eloquence, have expressed their
gratitude.
Consider, for example, the moving testi-
mony of the value of his services to his
country from the two Presidents whom he
served.
President Roosevelt stated simply, "I feel
I could not sleep at night with you out of the
country."
President Truman, whom he served twice
as Cabinet officer after his brilliant service
as Chief of Staff, has called him "the organ-
izer of victory, the greatest of the great in
our time," and has said "he takes his place at
the head of the greatest commanders of his-
tory."
Or, hear what his British colleagues in the
Combined Chiefs of Staff, sa4d to him in .
message on his retirement as Chief of.Staff in
November 1945. It is a document almost
without parallel.
It reads, in part:
"On your retirement after 6 years as Chief
of Staff of the U.S. Army, we, your British
colleagues in the Combined Chiefs of Staff,
send you this message of farewell.
"We regret that Field Marshall Sir John
Dill, and Admiral of the Fleet Sir Dudley
Pound, two of your greatest friends and ad-
mirers, are not alive today to add their names
to ours. As architect and builder of the
finest and most powerful Army in American
history, your name will be honored among
those of the greatest soldiers of your own or
any other country.
"Throughout your association with us,
in the higher direction of the Armed Forces
of America and Britain, your unfailing wis-
dom, high principles and breadth of view
have commanded the deep respect of us 411.
Always you have honored us by your frank-
ness, charmed us by your courtesy, and in-
spired us by your singleness of purpose and
your   selfless  devotion  to  our  common
cause. * * *"
Few examples of simple gratitude surpass
that brief and moving ceremony on May 8,
1945, in Secretary Stimson's office. Some of
you here tonight may remember, as vividly
as I do, that General Marshall was sum-
moned to the office of the Secretary, where Mr.
Stimson    had   invited   14  senior   gen-
erals and his own assistants to be present.
The Secretary asked General Marshall to
stand beside him, facing the rest of us who
were formed in an easy semicircle in front of
the Secretary's desk. The Secretary, then 78
years old, took off his old-fashioned spec-
tacles and, holding them in his hand, faced
General Marshall, bowed slightly, and said:
"I want to acknowledge my great personal
debt to you, sir, in common with the whole
country. No one who is thinking of him-
self can rise to true heights. You have
never thought of yourself. Seldom can a
man put aside such a thing as being the
commanding general of the greatest field
army in our history. This decision was made
by you for wholly unselfish reasons.
"But you have made your position as Chief
of Staff a greater one. I have never seen a
task of such magnitude performed by man.
"It is rare late in life to make new friends;
at my age, it is a slow process, but there is
no one for whom I have such deep respect
and, I think, greater affection. I have seen
a great many soldiers in my lifetime but you,
sir, are the finest soldier I have ever known."
Much has been said of General Marshall as
a great public figure but not nearly enough

about him as a very great human being.
This is not surprising since the general per-
mitted no intrusion into his private life, ex-
cept by his Government, for he treasured the
brief periods of time that he had with his
wife. He found solace, encouragement, and
refreshment of spirit in them.
So I would like tonight to speak of the
warmhearted, considerate, generous, and
modest man, whom many of you knew so
well, and I think the general will forgive
me and realize that it is a comfort to speak
of those we miss.
One of the pictures of General Marshall,
that I relish, reminds me of his wry, quiet
form of humor and his expertness at kidding
you while he maintained a straight face and
a fairly solemn air. He used to have the
barber, Joe Abbate, come up to his room and
cut his hair at least once a week. He found
the interlude refreshing, the conversation re-
laxing, and the results becoming. Now, I
must confess that I regarded these weekly
shearings with amazement and envy, as na-
ture had so scantily endowed me in hirsute
gifts that a trip to the barber was a major
occasion for me.
When we were in the Department of State,
the operation was performed in a blue-tiled
bathroom, with the general ensconced In
a leather chair, and Joe, a trusted friend,
busily engaged in snipping away with appro-
priate  flourishes. General   Marshall left
strict instructions, regardless of the haircut,
that I was to come in and discuss any mat-
ters with him which were not highly classi-
fied.
Time and again I would go in to clear
something with the general and I began
to look forward to it after a while, because
I could see a plot was developing. I rather
suspected that the general's aide, Jim George,
was involved in it. I would customarily
knock on the door and ask if I might inter-
rupt him. He would say, "Certainly, come
in, Lovett." I would ask him if he would
take a look at this particular piece of paper.
He would reply he didn't have his glasses;
read it to him. I would do so. He would
think it over; he might discuss it a, bit;
then he would give me my instructions, and
I would gather up the papers and get ready
to go.
At this point I remember seeing the gen-
eral looking at me out of the corner of
his eye, with his head dropped down, and
the barber working on the back of it. I
knew a trap was about to be sprung. He
said, "Lovett, do you want Abbate to wait
for you?" I said, "No, thank you, sir; I
think I had better get on with this job."
I started from the room and, just as I got
to the outer door, the general said, "Lovett,
you're an ex-banker. Why don't you try
negotiating with Abbate for half price?"
And I left the room with the general and
Abbate looking at each other in the mirror
and chuckling with delight.
Observing General Marshall at close range
under all manner of difficult circumstances,
it seems to me that his greatness stems from
a number of traits and talents which have
not been fully recognized or adequately men-
tioned. Some were exceptional gifts. His
eminence in leadership, it seems to me, was
a talent bestowed by a divine providence and
heightened by use and experience, as is the
case in any great talent, whatever the field.
His greatness, however, was enriched by
personal traits which, like ardor, spring from
the heart. He was a man of extraordinary
compassion, of most sensitive and discrimi-
nating instinct, and there was an air of nat-
ural elegance about him which was unas-
suming and added enormously to his calm
dignity. Dean Acheson, who worked closely
with General Marshall over a period of years,
found the precise word to describe this qual-
ity I speak of. He says, "The moment Gen-
eral Marshall entered a room, everyone in
it felt his presence. It was a striking and1
communicated force."

1960

A6061



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0380.txt

A6062                                 CON
There were two qualities which seemed to
me to have had deep, perhaps even control-
ling, influence in lifting him to the heights
of true greatness; first, his sincere concern
for others; and secondly, his acceptance of
change as a law of nature. Perhaps you'll
permit me to explore these traits with you
tonight and to draw a lesson from the second.
His concern for other people was something
more than consideration or courtesy. It
stemmed from a genuine interest in people
and particularly those for whom he felt some
responsibility. It was shown in many ways
and on many occasions--some touching and
a few amusing.
It comes through clear and strong and
heartwarming in his attitude toward the
Army which, I often thought, approximated
the worried affection you see when a mother,
on a street corner, with her very dear, small
son beside her, sees him rather vaguely step
off the curb into a street filled with speeding
traffic. She reaches down, snatches him by
the arm, yanks him back onto the sidewalk,
hands him a resounding whack on his dumb
little head and, while he howls at the top of
his lungs, she bawls him out for having
scared the living daylights out of her. In
many things, the "Old Man," to give him
that wonderful, privately used title in the
Army felt compelled to do, there was defi-
nitely that attitude. And in it, I found com-
fort and delight.
But this quality of concern for others is
most evident in his deep feeling for the in-
dividual soldier. We can hear the under-
standing and the blunt ring of strong con-
viction, when in his third biennial report in
1945 he has this to say: "It Is impossible for
a nation to compensate for the services of a
fighting man. There Is no pay scale that is
high enough to buy the service of 4 single
soldier during even a few minutes of the
agony of combat; the physical miseries of
the campaign, or the extreme personal in-
convenience of leaving his home to go out
to the most unpleasant and dangerous spots
on earth to serve his nation."
There was an incident In 1948 which, I
think, is not only very revealing about many
of General Marshall's traits of character but
also shows a most engaging quality of Presi-
dent Truman. I have obtained permission to
tell this story in detail.
A meeting of the Organization of American
States was scheduled to be held in Bogota,
Colombia, beginning April 9, 1948, a little
over a year after General Marshall had taken
over the difficult job of Secretary of State,
to try to reorient our foreign policy In the
light of new conditions in the world.
We had been forewarned that international
Communists had selected the occasion as a
time for a demonstration and that the United
States and General Marshall might be used
as symbols to attack. We felt some appre-
hension about having a substantial num-
ber of Americans attend in a mission headed
by our Secretary of State.
Just before the mission took off, the gen-
eral called me in and asked me if there were
any last-minute matters that I wanted to
take up with him. I said there were not. I
then asked him if he had any final instruc-
tions for me and he said, "Yes," he had.
Using his expressive hands to emphasize his
points, he said something like this: "Lovett,
I don't like the sound of that chest cold
you've got. You've had it for a week and it
doesn't seem to be getting any better. I
want you to go to see a doctor right away,
act on his advice, and be over it by the time
I get back next week." I said, "Yes, sir," and
bade him goodby.
Not long after the start of the meeting In
BogotA, a carefully planned and well-led
major riot broke out, during which many
of the city's buildings were burnt down and
the radio stations and local phone exchange
were seized by the mob. It was clear the
situation was getting rapidly out of hand and

GRESSIONAL RECORD - APPE
concern for the safety of the U.S. delegation
mounted. I stayed at the Department most
of the night of April 10-11 and went home
a little bit after 3 o'clock in the morning to
get a couple hours' sleep, from which I was
awakened by the watch officer calling to say
that we had a message in, indicating that the
roof of the section of the Embassy, which
housed the communication and code room,
had been set on fire and that the codes and
equipment might have to be destroyed for
security reasons. I went back to the De-
partment and, as we were not able to main-
tain reliable contact by normal radio means,
my apprehension grew.
It was clear from an earlier massage that
General Marshall was staying at a villa
located in a large property about a block in
size. We decided to try to get through to
him by a telephone circuit which was the
sole remaining method of communication.
After considerable delay we did reach the
house which had been assigned to General
Marshall. Jim George and Pat Carter an-
swered the call. I asked how the general was
and they said "fine"; I asked how the mis-
sion was, and they said that so far as they
knew, "everything was OK; nobody had been
hurt; some had had narrow        escapes."  I
asked Carter if there was any particular
danger. He said he thought not at the
moment.
To my question as to how the general was
getting along, he said-and this Is a reason-
ably accurate quotation-"The old man is
fine, he is untroubled, to tell you the truth, I
think he is having more fun than he has had
since he was a young lieutenant in the Philip-
pine insurrection. A little while ago he was
out in the garage instructing a young lieuten-
ant of the Colombian Army as to how to dis-
pose his men, telling him to bring most of
them in out of the rain to shelter, where they
could be warm and get some coffee, and to
leave on duty only the minimum required to
sound an alert if necessary, so that the others,
warm and rested, could come out fighting
mad and repel any attacks if needed."
Carter said "the old man" wanted to talk to
me and in a moment or two, the General's
calm voice came on the line. To the best of
my recollection, the conversation went some-
thing like this: The general said, "Can you
hear me, Lovett?" I said, "Yes, sir," and
started to say, "General, how are you?"
when he cut in with, "Lovett, how's your
cold? Are you doing what I told you to do
about it?" At that point, my gaskets blew
and I think, in a sanitized version, I said,
"Holy smoke, General, never mind about me.
How are you and the delegation?" He said,
"Everything's fine at the moment. We've
had a little excitement down here" but he
felt the situation was beginning to stabilize,
or would shortly; that the Colombian Gov-
ernment had tried to provide protection,
which he thought was going to be adequate
but that the riot was going to pretty well
break up the meeting unless other delega-
tions could be assured of being evacuated If
necessary. I asked him what we could do to
be helpful and told him the President had
instructed me to tell him that he could have
anything he wanted to insure the safety of
the delegation or for any other purpose.
General Marshall said he thought that the
meeting could be held together if positive as-
surance of air transportation could be given.
He said at last report the government still
held the airfield and that he felt that some
troop-carrier planes of a squadron from the
Panama Canal Zone would do the job if they
could be held on alert in Panama subject to
his call. I asked him if he needed any parti-
cular supplies, emphasizing the word "sup-
plies" in such a manner as to make me feel
sure he realized that I meant small arms or
other  defensive   equipment. The     general
said, "No," all he wanted was a gross of
candles, some evaporated milk, some kato
syrup, and several thousand ponchos. I re-
member hanging onto the desk while I dl-

NDIX                           August 11
gested this weird list and wondering who was
going to hold a taffy-pull at night in a rain-
storm. I said that I would see about having
them flown In at once with some emergency
rations from the Canal Zone.
It was a little after 7 o'clock in the morn-
ing by now and I called the White House
operator and asked her to try to locate the
Secretary of the Army at his residence in
Washington. She reported shortly that he
was out of town on an Inspection trip. I
then tried the Chief of Staff of the Army,
who was away on official business at some
Army post. The operator was then asked
to try to get hold of the Deputy Chief of
Staff.
I was feeling a bit frustrated by this
time and, in a rather self-pitying voice, I
said to the operator, "Good gosh, Isn't there
anybody in Washington on this bright April
morning except you and me?" The reply
came promptly back, "Yes, Mr. Secretary,
President Truman is here. Would you like
to speak to him?" I said, "Isn't it a bit
early?" and the answer was, "No, he has
been up over an hour; I'll see if he's available
to take the call."
In a moment President Truman's voice
came on the phone and he said, "What's the
news, Bob?" I gave him the reassuring re-
port from General Marshall about our dele-
gation and included a report on the request
for supplies. The President asked what I
was doing about getting them down to him
promptly. I told him that I was having a
little trouble digging out someone early on
Sunday morning who could issue the neces-
sary authority to the commanding general
in the Panama Canal Zone to make delivery
of the requested supplies. He said, "Well,
Bob, you've found him." Rather startled, I
said, "I beg your pardon, sir"---and heard
laughter from the other end of the line,
followed by the question, "Have you for-
gotten that the President is also the Com-
mander in Chief?" I said I was sorry that
I had for the moment, and the President
said that a heck of a lot of other people
around town had, too, with less excuse than
I had. He then asked me to tell him what
General Marshall had requested. I read
him the list and said, "Mr. President, have
I your authority to send a message to Gen-
eral Crittenberger and tell him that you
have approved the shipment of these Items
Immediately?" He said, "No, I'll call him
on the phone myself and tell him that I
want them shipped at once and to have
those troop carriers warmed up and ready
to go on General Marshall's call." The
President called back in about 20 minutes
and said that he had talked to General
Crittenberger and that everything was be-
Ing taken care of.
My embarrassment at the episode with the
President was eased by two things: the Presi-
dent never told on me and our people got
home safely. But my curiosity about the
ponchos almost killed me until I got the
story from Carter and George. It appears
that the Colombian troops came up from
the jungle heat to the high altitude of
Bogota, with the temperature about 50, in
thin cotton uniforms and the general real-
ized that standing around in the drizzle
and cold would make them miserable and,
therefore, not as reliable in facing a mob as
if they   could   be dry   and   warm. The
ponchos were issued, the troops were en-
thusiastic about them, and the delegations
got on with the business as soon as they
knew they could be airlifted out if neces-
sary.
If you will reflect on this Incident a mo-
ment, you will recognize that calm, stead-
fastness, instinct about a soldier's needs
and concern for them, in addition to ability
to inspire confidence turned something that
might have been a shameful disaster into
a minor, irritating event.
I mentioned earlier that one of General
Marshall's most unusual attributes--and one,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0381.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - APPENDIX

I think, which added a great deal to his
stature-was his recognition     of the fact
that Nature never stands still and that
change is, indeed, one of the primary laws
of life. His receptiveness to new ideas,
which you have seen, for example, in the use
of airpower and in the Marshall plan, was
made easier by this philosophy, for he was
not burdened with the attiude of mind which
regards any change as a threat to the es-
tablished order--or vested   rights, if you
choose-which    must, therefore, be auto-
matically, even blindly resisted.
About 6 months ago I testified before a
Senate committee regarding policymaking
machinery in the special field of the De-
partment of Defense. I expressed the opin-
ion that the essential military attribute of
close relationship  between   planning   and
operational responsibility existed and that
proved operations machinery was currently
in being; and, finally, that the departments
were staffed, for the most part, with compe-
teht, specially trained officers whom we were
fortunate to have in good supply. I sug-
gested, however, that it seemed to be in-
creasingly difficult to fit new feet into old
boots; that there was, I thought, excessive
staff layering and, obviously, far too many
committees with the resultant trend toward
a reduction in the authority of the individual
which I greatly deplored.
It may be that I place too much impor-
tance on men and not enough on the ma-
chine. I do not think so. But it is of no
consequence anyway because events in the
world are building up forces which will in-
evitably raise again the question of the
proper organization of the services to meet
the new situations which face us. The
world is full of dangers, and the attitude to-
ward change will be even more important
-than in the past.
Wherever you look in the world today you
find one great common denominator the in-
creasing role Government is playing in every
aspect of every man's life, everywhere. We
do not like to admit it, but Government is
getting bigger all the time-partly because
big government is necessary to deal with big
labor and big business; partly because our
people are asking the Government to do more
for them each year; and, partly because Gov-
ernment by Its very nature is a glandular
grower.
Now, to oversimplify things a bit, this
means more Government expenses. More
Government expenditures mean more taxes;
or more economy and efficiency; or a mixture
of both. Looking at the problem of national
security with such calmness as I can muster,
I cannot avoid the conclusion that world
change has overtaken us and that, in a rela-
tively few years, economic pressure alone will
force us to reexamine our current organiza-
tion and procedures.
When that time comes, and I think it will
come sooner rather than later, we will need
the detached approach to the problem of
what is best for national security that Gen-
eral Marshall exemplified and which won him
universal respect. National security seems
to me to be more complex than ever. I feel it
is a problem we will have with us for genera-
tions to come and It is not helped in an open
society by either an open mouth or a closed
mind.
It will most certainly not be solved by trot-
tlng out those tired old slogans of warnings
about "reduction of civilian control" and
the "man on horseback" that have been used
to divert attention for generations. When
you hear them just remember that the chiefs

of the branches of the Army used the same
"man on horseback" argument against Secre-
tary Elihu Root's reorganization plan which
established the position of Chief of Staff of
the Army.
Nor Is the problem likely to be solved by
appointing several committees of distin-
guished citizens from remote walks of life.
Such groups normally come to Washington
Ignorant of the problems and ways of Gov-
ernment and, by dint of concentration on
committee procedures, remain in that happy
state. Some may even be attracted by the
title "ad hoc committee" little realizing that
it is merely a device used ad infinitum to
obtain snap judgments ad nauseam.
The solution will be found, I suppose, when
necessity or good judgment make it abun-
dantly clear that in national security the
whole is more important than its parts.
Having spoken in behalf of receptiveness to
good new ideas or changes for the better, let
me identify an area in which I hope you will
permit no change to occur. Part of my in-
heritance from General Marshall is a feeling
of real affection and admiration for the Army
and the way it performs its manifold duties.
The great traditions, which are handed down
from generation to generation in the armed
services, of duty, honor, loyalty, and dedica-
tion to the service of one's country are among
the most admirable virtues of mankind.
These have been kept alive by a dedicated and
skilled group of officers who realize that self-
discipline is one of the higher attributes of
man. We simply cannot afford to lose these
virtues. Our great schools and their stand-
ards must be nurtured and strengthened so
that the code of excellence may be carried
forward in a world which seems to have an
increasing taste for the mediocre.
My strong conviction about this results
from my experience with you, of which I am
proud, and because it was these traditions,
training, and discipline, which I have just
mentioned, that produced the young Army
officer who became one of the greatest gen-
erals and greatest men of his time.
Since I spoke at the outset of certain basic
characteristics shared by General Marshall
and Secretary Stimson, it is fitting and prop-
er, I believe, that I should close my comments
by letting the venerable and distinguished
Secretary of War be heard again, through me,
in his valedictory remarks made at a press
conference in September 1945.
Hear Mr. Stimson's words: "General Mar-
shall's devotion to the Nation he served was
a vital quality which infused everything he
does. During the course of a long lifetime,
much of it spent in positions of public trust,
I have had considerable experience of men in
government. General Marshall has given
me a new gage of what such service should
be. The destiny of America at the critical
time of its national existence has been in the
hands of a great and good citizen. Let no
man forget it."
RECORD OFFICE AT THE CAPITOL
An office for the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD,
with Mr. Raymond F. Noyes in charge, is lo-
cated in Statuary Hall, House wing, where
orders will be received for subscriptions to
the RECORD at $1.50 per month or for single
copies at 1 cent for eight pages (minimum
charge of 3 cents). Also, orders from Mem-
bers of Congress to purchase reprints from
the RECORD should be processed through this
office.

LAWS RELATIVE TO THE PRINTING             OF
DOCUMENTS
Either House may order the printing of a
document not already provided for by law,
but only when the same shall be accompa-
nied by an estimate from the Public Printer
as to the probable cost thereof. Any execu-
tive department, bureau, board, or independ-
ent office of the Government submitting re-
ports or documents in response to inquiries
from Congress shall submit therewith an
estimate of the probable cost of printing the
usual number. Nothing in this section re-
lating to estimates shall apply to reports or
documents not exceeding 50 pages (U.S.
Code, title 44, sec. 140, p. 1938).
Resolutions for printing extra copies, when
presented to either House, shall be referred
immediately to the Committee on House
Administration of the House of Representa-
tives or the Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration of the Senate, who, in making theit
report, ,shall give the probable cost of the
proposed printing upon the estimate of the
Public Printer, and no extra copies shall be
printed before such committee has reported
(U.S. Code, title 44, sec. 133, p. 1937).
GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS FOR SALE
Additional copies of Government publica-
tions are offered for sale to the public by the
Superintendent of Documents, Government
Printing Office, Washington 25, D.C, at cost
thereof as determined by the Public Printer
plus 50 percent: Provided, That a discount of
not to exceed 25 percent may be allowed to
authorized bookdealers and quantity pur-
chasers, but such printing shall not inter-
fere with the prompt execution of work for
the Government. The Superintendent of
Documents shall prescribe the terms and
conditions under which he may authorize
the resale of Government publications by
bookdealers, and he may designate any Gov-
ernment officer his agent for the sale of Gov-
ernment publiLntions under such regulations
as shall be agreed upon by the Superintend-
ent of Documents and the head of the re-
spective department or establishment of the
Government (U.S. Code, title 44, sec. 72a,
Supp. 2).
CONGRESSIONAL DIRECTORY
The Public Printer, under the direction of
the Joint Committee on Printing, may print
for sale; at a price sufficient to reimburse the
expenses of such printing, the current Con-
gressional Directory. No sale shall be made
on 1credit (U.S. Code, title 44, sec. 150, p.
1939).
PRINTING OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
EXTRACTS
It shall be lawful for the Public Printer
to print and deliver upon the order of any
Senator, Representative, or Delegate, extracts
from the CoNTGRESSIONAL RECORD, the person
ordering the same paying the cost thereof
(U.S. Code, title 44, sec. 185, p. 1942).
CHANGE OF RESIDENCE
Senators, Representatives, and Delegates
who have changed their residences will please
give information thereof to the Government
Printing Office, that their addresses may be
correctly given in the RECORD.

1960

A6063



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0382.txt

SENATORS WITH RESIDENCES
IN WASHINGTON
OFFICE ADDRESS: Senate Office Building,
Washington, D. C.
[Streets northwest unless otherwise stated)
Vice President, Richard Nixon
Aiken, George D., Vt ---- Carroll Arms
Allott, Gordon, Col   - ------ Cleveland House
Anderson, Clinton     P., 6 Wesley Circle
N. Mex.
Bartlett, E. L., Alaska ------
Beall, J. Glenn, Md --------
Bennett, Wallace F., Utah.
