Sims
Smathers
Smith, Kans.
Smith, Ohio
Stockman
Sutton
Thomas
Thornberry
Whitaker
White, Idaho
Willis
Wilson, Tex.
Winstead
Woodhouse

The SPEAKER. On this roll call 346
Members have answered to their names;
a quorum is present.
By unanimous consent, further pro-
ceedings under the call were dispensed
with.
DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT OF 1950
Mr. SPENCE. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House resolve itself into the
Committee of the Whole House on the
State of the Union for the further con-
sideration of the bill (H. R. 9176) to es-
tablish a system of priorities and alloca-
tions for materials and facilities, au-
thorize the requisitioning thereof, pro-
vide financial assistance for expansion
of productive   capacity  and   supply,
strengthen controls over credit, regulate
speculation on commodity exchanges,
and by these measures facilitate the pro-
duction of goods and services necessary
for the national security, and for other
purposes.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly the House resolved itself
into the Committee of the Whole House
on the State of the Union for the further
consideration of the bill, H. R. 9176, with
Mr. SMITH of Virginia in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill,
The CHAIRMAN. When the Com-
mittee rose on yesterday there was pend-
ing the amendment offered by the gentle-
man from Pennsylvania [Mr. KUNKEL],
and a substitute offered by the gentleman
from Kentucky [Mr. SPENCE].
Are there any further amendments at
this time?
Mr. WOLCOTT. Mr. Chairman, a par-
liamentary inquiry.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman will
state it.
Mr. WOLCOTT. Mr. Chairman, as
the Chairman has stated, the parliamen-
tary situation as I understand is that the
gentleman   from   Pennsylvania   [Mr.
KUNKEL] has submitted an amendment
to the committee bill; the gentleman
from Kentucky [Mr. SPENCE] has sub-
mitted a substitute. The parliamentary
inquiry is along this line: How many
amendments may be pending to either
the Kunkel amendment or the Spence
substitute?
The CHAIRMAN. Only one amend-
ment to either the Kunkel amendment
or the Spence substitute may be pending
at one time, and that amendment must
be disposed of before another amend-
ment may be offered. The number of
amendments Is limited in that way.
Mr. WOLCOTT. If an amendment be
offered to the Spence substitute would



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0283.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

an amendment to that amendment be
in order?
The CHAIRMAN. It would not.
Mr. WOLCOTT. Is the same thing.
true of amendments to the Kunkel
amendment?
The CHAIRMAN. Exactly.
Mr. CELLER. Mr. Chairman, a par-
liamentary inquiry.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman
will state it.
Mr. CELLER. If one wishes to offer
an amendment to the Spence substitute
must one wait until the Kunkel amend-
ment is voted up or down?
The CHAIRMAN. No; the amend-
ment can be offered at any time the
Member is recognized by the Chair.
Mr. ROGERS of Florida. Mr. Chair-
man, a parliamentary inquiry.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman
will state it.
Mr. ROGERS of Florida. Suppose an
amendment be offered to the original
committee bill that was reported; does
that take precedence over an amend-
ment to the substitute?
The CHAIRMAN. Only one section
of the original bill has been read, and
only that part is subject to amendment
at this time.
Mr. WOLCOTT. Mr. Chairman, a
further parliamentary inquiry.
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman
will state it.
Mr. WOLCOTT. Do we understand
that an amendment is in order to any
section of the Kunkel amendment or to
any section of the substitute?
The CHAIRMAN. That is true.
Mr. JAVITS. Mr. Chairman, I offer
an amendment.
The Clerk read as follows:
Amendment offered by Mr. JAVITS to the
Spence substitute: Page 16, line 7, strike out
"June 15, 1950," and insert "April 15, 1950,".
Mr. JAVITS. Mr. Chairman, it is my
intention if this amendment is approved
to offer an exactly similar amendment
to the Kunkel substitute which also de-
fines as the base period for a ceiling price
on agricultural commodities, which is
what my amendment refers to, the period
from June 10 to June 24, 1950.
My amendment seeks to change that
provision of the Spence substitute which
sets the June 15, 1950, price received by
producers, as that on which a ceiling
price for agricultural commodities is to
be determined. There is a standard in
the Spence substitute which my amend-
ment does not disturb and which says
that the cejling price shall be "the
parity price for such commodity," then
it goes on and says "or the average price
received by the producers on June 15,
1950, if that is higher." I am making
that date April 15, 1950, by my amend-
ment.
This is the reason for it: We discussed
the question on yesterday and it ap-
peared very clear that whereas in other
items of industrial equipment and of
consumer goods there may have been
serious rises in prices beginning with the
Korean episode on June 25, 1950, in the
case of agricultural commodities a sen-
sational rise had begun on April 1, 1950.

I would like to give the House some
figures as follows:
E      Average price  Per-
and ect  received by  centago
ive     farmers    of
Commodity and  parity _           parity
unit  I    price,             price,
June 15 Apr 15 June 15, June 15,
19501  1950'  19501  1950'
Soybeans, per bushel-  2.55  2.48  2.80  110
Lemons, per box 2...  3.14  1.53  3.79  121
Beef cattle, per hun-
dredweight -------- 17. 30  21. 80  23. 70  137
Veal calves, per hun-
dredweight --......  19. 40  24.60  25. E0  134
Lambs, per hundred-
weight ----------  19. 10  23.80  24.80  130
Wool, per pound -....  51.3  0. 4  56. 2  110
1 Source: Agriculture Prices issued by Bureau of
Agricultural Economics, U. S. Department of Agri-
culture, June 30, 1950.
2 Equivalent on-tree returns for all methods of sale.
Yesterday when we discussed this
question it was made very clear that all
of us who represented the agricultural
districts and all of us who represented
city districts would try to be fair about
this situation, we would not try to tax
the respective people whom we represent
unduly. It appears now that on June
15, 1950, which is the date set up in the
Spence substitute, the market price was
in certain agricultural commodities very
considerably higher than the parity
price. That was the case primarily in
meat.
These figures extracted from those I
have given above are very interesting.
On beef cattle the market price was 137
percent of the parity price on June 15;
on veal calves 134 percent; on lambs 130
percent and on wool 110 percent. In
other words, in these principal items of
meat the market price was one-third
higher than the parity price.
What is the parity price? The parity
price is the relationship between the cost
of what the farmer buys and what the
farmer gets for what he sells. Not only
that but the parity price by the last
Agricultural Adjustment Act was ad-
justed so that it is now far more modern.
It is what is called modern parity and
takes in the years from 1939 to 1949,
hence it takes into consideration the
much higher prices which obtained dur-
ing World War II; so that if you give the
farmer 100 percent of parity you will not
be unfair to him, you would be compen-
sating him fully for all his increased
costs.
I point out that parity price is very dif-
ferent from the support price, which is
what is maintained under the Agricul-
tural Adjustment Act and which may
range between 60 and 90 percent of the
parity price. Under the Spence sub-
stitute there is parity price, not 60 to
90 percent, but the full parity price or
the market price on June 15, 1950, which-
ever is higher.
In view of these sensational rises in a
few commodities, but very key commodi-
ties because meat constitutes about 25
percent of the average moderate fami-
lies' budget, I submit, in view of the sen-
sational rise from April 1 to June 15,
through the Korean episode, of these
particular food prices, if there is to be a
roll-back the fair date to choose for these

commodities is April 15. The reason I
do not use April 1 is because the Bureau
of Agricultural Economics gets out a rec-
ord  of Agricultural Prices    on   the
fifteenth of the month. I have it before
me. April 15 is the date upon which they
have found and definitely ascertained
what the market prices are, and I have
chosen that date.
Mr. RICH. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. JAVITS. I yield to the gentleman
from Pennsylvania.
Mr. RICH. What percentage of in-
crease would take place from the date
the gentleman suggests to the date that
is now in the bill?
Mr. JAVITS. It runs from about 20 to
25 percent.
The CHAIRMAN. The time of the
gentleman from New York has expired.
Mr. JAVITS. Mr. Chairman, I ask
unanimous consent to proceed for two
additional minutes.
The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection
to the reqdest of the gentleman from
New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. JAVITS. Between April 15 and
June 15 the increase was about two-
thirds of the total increase over parity.
Mr. GROSS. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. JAVITS. I yield to the gentle-
man from Iowa.
Mr. GROSS. The        gentleman   has
given us parity prices for meat products.
Should not the gentleman also give us
parity prices for corn, wheat, and all
the rest of the products for the same
date?
Mr. JAVITS. May I point out to my
colleague that in those commodities I
have not included in my figures, the
parity prices were higher than the
market prices, hence they are not ger-
mane to this discussion as the bill even
after my amendment will still retain the
parity-price standard as to those com-
modities. My amendment leaves in the
bill the ceiling of parity prices, so where
the parity price is higher than the
market price, there is no complaint.
Mr. GROSS. Does not the gentleman
think it fair to apply that to meat
products?
Mr. JAVITS. In effect my amend-
ment does that, because the market
price was higher as to meat, than the
parity price. I made that clear in my
statement to the House.
Mr. CAVALCANTE. Mr. Chairman,
will the gentleman yield?
Mr. JAVITS. I yield to the gentle-
man from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CAVALCANTE. Does the gentle-
man's amendment also roll back wages?
Mr. JAVITS. That is determined in
another part of the bill at the period
between May 24 and June 24, 1950. In
view of the fact that there is no com-
parable situation in wages or in other
prices during the period between April
15 and May 24, I have confined my
amendment to the particular items
which moderate-income people buy and
in which there was a sensational rise in
that period.

1950

11727



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0284.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

Mr. CAVALCANTE. Can the gentle-
man give us a specific answer as to
whether or not his amendment does roll
back wages?
Mr. JAVITS. I have just given the
gentleman that language. My amend-
ment deals only with agricultural prod-
ucts, for the reasons stated, because that
is the case in which the shoe hurts.
Mr. FERNANDEZ. Mr. Chairman,
will the gentleman yield?
Mr. JAVITS. I yield to the gentle-
man from New Mexico.
Mr. FERNANDEZ. Under what the-
ory does the gentleman believe he should
pick out a certain commodity and go
back and roll it back to April, except
convenience? This is a war measure,
and ought to treat everybody alike.
Mr. JAVITS. I have already made
that clear and I would like to point out
that my colleague the gentleman from
Georgia [Mr. PACE] yesterday said that
this provision ought to be reviewed. I
hope the House will review it now.
Mr. SPENCE. Mr. Chairman, I rise
in opposition to the amendment.
Mr. Chairman, the amendment offered
by the gentleman from New York would
have the effect of depressing the prices
of agricultural commodities. We have
attempted to enact a bill that will pro-
vide for a stable economy, and that there
be a just relationship between the price
of commodities and the wages of labor.
The gentleman from New York selects
April 15 as the date to fix the compara-
ble prices of agricultural commodities.
That would have the effect of lowering
the prices of those commodities and of
dislocating their relationship to the
other prices and the wages of labor. It
seems to me it would be inadvisable to
pass legislation of that kind. I do not
have the statistics; I do not know just
what effect it would have; no considera-
tion has been given to it in committee,
and it is of far-reaching import. And,
I want to say another thing. I come
from the city, but if we do not give the
farmer a price that will persuade him to
stay on the farm and produce, the prices
of commodities that he produces will
necessarily rise. It is essential the
farmer shall obtain a fair price for his
product. I hope the amendment will be
defeated.
Mr. JAVITS. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. SPENCE. I yield to the gentle-
man from New York.
Mr. JAVITS. The gentleman from
Georgia [Mr. PACE] said yesterday when
we discussed that very question about
fairness to the farmer, which is very
important, and I know that my colleague
here is going to enlighten us on that
score, and I welcome him, and I empha-
size that: All we want to be is fair. We
want to be very fair about this. The
gentleman from Georgia [Mr. PACE]
said, "I agree with the gentleman that
there was a rise there"-I am quoting his
words in respect to farm products-"but
It was from the processor and whole-
saler on down through the retailer to the
consumer." He said the farmer has sold
his crops, so the farmer is not interested

now. We are dealing with speculators,
and that is exactly what this amend-
ment is designed to do.
Mr. SPENCE. I think It goes very
much further than that. I think we do
not know just what effect it would have,
but I know that it will have the effect of
reducing prices.
Mr. HOPE. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. SPENCE. I yield to the gentle-
man from Kansas.
Mr. HOPE. I should like to comment
on the statement made by the gentleman
from New York to the effect that farmers
had sold their crops and would not be
affected by this roll-back. He says that
his amendment would apply specifically
to meat animals. Meat animals are sold
every day in the year, so farmers have
not disposed of their meat animals.
They sold them on the 16th of April, they
sold them on the 30th of April, they are
selling them today, and they will sell
them tomorrow. So what the gentle-
man just said has no point whatever.
Mr. SPENCE. I think it is obvious
that we have not had sufficient consid-
eration of the amendment. I hope it
will be voted down.
Mr. SHORT. Mr. Chairman, I move
to strike out the last word.
Mr. Chairman, if there has been one
thing that has come out of the Korean
situation it is justification for the bold
and courageous stand taken by Admiral
Louis E. Denfeld when he testified last
year as to this country's lack of pre-
paredness. It is now clear that he is the
Billy Mitchell of this period because he
sacrificed his career to warn America
that it was in danger.
Had his advice been heeded, we would
have had from the very outset of this
Korean crisis an effective striking force
of carrier-based planes and Marines to
throw into Korea.
To correct the badly shattered con-
fidence of our people, I believe that the
Armed Services Committee of the House
of Representatives should request Gen-
eral Eisenhower, Admiral Denfeld, Gen-
eral Spaatz, Admiral Halsey, and some
others to give us the benefit of, any sug-
gestioi.s they may care to make.
God   save  the  Commonwealth     of
Massachusetts. No one could contribute
more than Admiral Louis E. Denfeld.
America needs men of his character,
courage, and ability.
Mr. PACE. Mr. Chairman, I rise in
opposition to the amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I hope I will be par-
doned for saying, as we begin our de-
liberations on these amendments, that I
hope everybody will make an effort to try
to treat all groups as nearly as possible
alike.
I regret that the legislative situation
is such that I cannot offer the amend-
ment which I gave notice yesterday I
would offer on this question.
The gentleman seeks to go back to
April 15 as the determining price, the
market price on commodities, in fixing
the ceiling prices when they should be
above the parity price. I said yesterday
that I intend to ask the House to strike

the one date fixed in the Spence amend-
ment on agricultural commodities, June
15, and write In exactly the same provi-
sion as is provided here for the wage
earner.
It says here that the wage earner's
ceiling shall not be less than the high-
est wage in the period from May 24 to
June 24. That is all right with me.
That includes the miners' increase after
April 15. Many of these new automobile
contracts were made after April 15.
They will all be protected by the May
24 to June 24 provision.
I ask the gentleman from New York to
reconsider his statement that there were
no substantial increases in wages after
April 15, because there were, and I think
the farmers of the Nation, as I under-
stand them and know them, do not in-
tend to ask you to roll back those wage
increases which were received up until
the time of the Korean conflict. All the
farmers of the Nation are asking is that
you give them exactly equal treatment,
that the highest price during the same
30-day period, from May 24 to June 24,
be considered one of the minimums for
their prices.
If the gentleman is concerned about
the prices of meat, and I know he is con-
cerned about that, then perhaps we may
have to deal with that problem sep-
arately. I do not at the moment how-
ever see the need for that, but certainly
when the gentleman offers an amend-
ment which treats with the whole agri-
cultural structure across the board pred-
icated only upon the prices of one or two
commodities, I doubt the soundness of
such an approach.
Mr. JAVITS. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. PACE. I yield.
Mr. JAVITS. There are two reasons
for my amendment. First, it is the fact
that parity remains in the bill.
Mr. PACE. Yes, indeed.
Mr. JAVITS. Hence practically every
commodity is protected except that those
that have had these inordinate rises.
Secondly, and very important, wages are
not in the same position as farm prices.
Wages do not have parity prices, and the
Government has not spent $4,000,000,000
to protect them. However, I am not
mad about that. And I am not arguing
against it. At this point I only point out
that it is right to treat the agricultural
situation on its own because i. does oc-
cupy a unique position in respect to the
price situation.
Mr. PACE. I have great respect for
the gentleman, but I regfet I cannot
agree with him. I see no more reason
why we should roll back farm prices as
long as they are reasonable than it would
be to roll back wages. If we are going
to start this morning with a general roll-
back plan and are going to use the Ko-
rean conflict as the justification for this
legislation, and this bill would not be
here otherwise, then let us fix that date.
Mr. BROWN of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. PACE. I yield.
Mr. BROWN of Georgia. The speaker
has fully demonstrated the fallacy of

11728

AUGUST 3



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0285.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

undertaking to write a bill on the floor
of the House of this nature, without any
hearings whatever.
The House is trying to write a bill to
control every commodity in the United
States where the interrelationship of
all commodities is so complicated and
complex. If we have to have a control
bill, let us have a meeting right away.
The chairman has said that he will call
a meeting next week for the purpose of
haviig hearings on a control bill. Let
us hold a committee meeting so that we
can put all these bills together and so
that the committee can hear witnesses
on these problems.
The fallacy of going about this on the
floor of the House is revealed when the
gentleman from New York who knows
nothing on earth about agriculture gets
up and tries to write a bill here for agri-
culture. You could put all the acreage
you ever heard of in New York City in a
quarter-acre lot, and yet we have a sit-
uation here which permits the gentle-
man from New York to get up and try to
write a bill here for agriculture in this
country.
The CHAIRMAN. The time of the
gentleman from Georgia [Mr. PACE] has
expired.
Mr. PACE. Mr. Chairman, I ask
unanimous consent to proceed for an
additional minute.
The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from
Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. PACE. I simply want to add this
in conclusion: As far as my part in this
is concerned, I intend the best I know
how to treat those who work in the
plants and in the factories and those who
work in the sun in the fields exactly
alike. They are both entitled to our
most sympathetic consideration. I beg
you to not start this morning creating
rank discrimination between the two
groups. The wage earner gets his wages
from the factory, and the farmer gets his
wages from the commodities he pro-
duces and sells in the market place.
Mr. H. CARL        ANDERSEN. Mr.
Chairman, I move to strike out the last
word.
Mr. Chairman, if the Congress of the
United States wants to bankrupt a good
many thousand cattle feeders, then
just accept this amendment. Farmers
throughout the Midwest who bought
feeders and put them into their feed lots
paid an extremely high price during the
last few months, yes, up to 28 cents a
pound for those cattle. The initial in-
vestment in some cases is as much as
$250 for each head of cattle. Now it is
proposed by the gentleman from New
York that we take away from these men
who are feeding cattle at least 20 percent
of their initial investment through a
roll-back to April 15. This will mean
that hundreds of thousands of farmers
will lose money they cannot afford to
lose. Worst of all, it will destroy confi-
dence in the future of the cattle- and
hog-feeding business. Surely the Con-
gress will not accept an amendment of
this kind, which is confiscatory and en-
tirely alien to what we stand for here in

America. Some of these feeders have
thousands invested in cattle, and a move
of this sort would ruin many of them
financially.
I know the gentleman from New York
[Mr. JAVITS] wants to be fair, but I
question his knowledge of this particular
subject.
Mr. JAVITS. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. H. CARL ANDERSEN. In just a
moment. If you want to put the entire
beef and pork supply into the black
market, just accept such an amendment
as this. Certainly our memory is not
so short that we cannot go back to 1942,
when our Government said to the farm-
ers, "You can get only 72 cents for your
butterfat." "You can get 55 cents from
the creamery, and you are entitled to a
subsidy of 17 cents, and that is all you
can get, even though the market value
of butterfat uncontrolled would have ap-
proached $1 a pound." What happened?
Four neighbors of mine did away with
their dairy herds as did thousands of
other dairy farmers. Production in our
Nation was at a minimum, and as soon
as the OPA went off butter skyrocketed
to over $1 a pound, temporarily. The
only answer to the sufficiency of meat
or butter for the people in the gentle-
man's district in New York is production.
If you start to monkey with our entire
economic structure, you will create havoc
all through the Nation. Let us not dis-
courage production of any food, because
it is only through profit incentive will
farmers endure the drudgery of feeding
the rest of the Nation.
Keep this in mind also: If meat goes
into the black-market channels, where
will you get the insulin for the diabetics
of the Nation? Where are you going to
get all of these new drugs that we hear
so much about today? The cattle that
are slaughtered out in the woods for the
black market do not produce the essen-
tials of these miracle drugs which offer
so much to those afflicted by certain
ailments.
So I plead with the House to turn down
this amendment most emphatically.
Mr. JENSEN. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. H. CARL ANDERSEN. I yield.
Mr. JENSEN. I appreciate what the
gentleman has said. The Members of
this House know that the able, con-
scientious gentleman from Minnesota
understands more about actual farming
problems confronting our farmers, than
any other Member in this House. He
is a real dirt farmer himself and always
keeps his feet on the ground, as we say
out West. The gentleman knows that
while the farmer is the greatest pro-
ducer of raw materials, he is also our
greatest consumer of goods. The farm-
er consumes one and one-half times
more, per capita, than do the rest of the
people of America, due to the fact that
the farmer is by far the best customer
of durable manufactured goods, such as
farm machinery, lumber, fencing, and
clothing.
Mr. H. CARL ANDERSEN. I appre-
ciate very much the remarks of the gen-
tleman from Iowa. Agriculture is the
best customer of the manufacturers in

the United States and provides a tre-
mendous number of jobs throughout the
Nation in the handling of what we raise
for the consumer. I cannot see the atti-
tude of some of these gentlemen from the
industrial East who will not recognize
the fact that unless you give to agricul-
ture a little profit, industry itself will
never prosper, nor will the working peo-
ple of the United States receive decent
wages.
Mr. JENSEN. Is it not also a fact
that between April 15 and June 15, be-
cause of the rise in farm products, a
number of the people in Mr. JAVITS' dis-
trict and all over America were able to
go back to work because of the buying
power of the American farmer. Gov-
ernment records prove that every dollar
of farm income generates over $4 in
wages for the American worker.
Mr. H. CARL        ANDERSEN. The
gentleman is absolutely correct. I can-
not see the attitude of some of these
gentlemen from the industrial East who
will not recognize the fact that unless
you give to agriculture a little profit, in-
dustry itself will never prosper, nor will
the working people of the United States
receive decent wages.
Mr. JAVITS. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. H. CARL ANDERSEN. I yield.
Mr. JAVITS. The purchase price on
June 15 was $17.30 per hundredweight
for cattle. - The price I want to set on
April 15 was $4 more, or $21.80.
Mr. H. CARL ANDERSEN. Just a
minute. I do not yield further. The
gentleman talks about parity price. The
gentleman does not realize that the
farmer has taken a jolt that no other
line of industry has taken since 1947.
Today I am selling barley off my farm
for which I may obtain $1.35. The same
grade barley in 1947 returned me $2.50,
or in other words it is 40 percent less
today. The same thing applies to rye. I
am lucky if I get $3.75 for flax, whereas
I got $7 in 1947. Eggs are only about
60 percent of parity, but let us take a
glance at what we must buy. Just to-
day my farm foreman telephoned me
about the purchase of a new wagon. I
said, "How much is it?" He said, "$350,
equipped with tires." I said, "If we must
have it, we have to pay the price." But
3 years ago I could have bought that
same wagon for $225. Farm machinery
generally because of increases in freight
cost and labor costs have all advanced
materially since 1945.
The CHAIRMAN. The time of the
gentleman from Minnesota has expired.
Mr. H. CARL       ANDERSEN.      Mr.
Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to
proceed for two additional minutes.
The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection?
There was no objection.
Mr. H. CARL ANDERSEN. The raise
has come about, may I say to the gentle-
man from New York [Mr. JAVITS], be-
cause the union people throughout the
Nation have received certain boosts all
along the line, in wages, yes, on the rail-
roads and in the factories, and this has
resulted in increasing the price of every-
thing the farmer has to buy. I hope
that the gentleman from New York will

1950

11729



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0286.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

revise his line of thinking and will be
willing to afford to farmers the same op-
portunities he strives so hard to secure
for the working people of his district.
They are all Americans and are entitled
to equally fair treatment.
Mr. HOPE. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. H. CARL ANDERSEN. I yield to
the gentleman from Kansas, who is as
conversant with our farming problems as
anyone in Government.
Mr. HOPE. Is not the proposal of the
gentleman from New York in selecting
a special date upon which to roll back
farm prices eminently unfair unless he
also selects the same date for rolling
back the prices of the things the farmer
buys?
Mr. H. CARL       ANDERSEN. That
would be the fair thing to do. All of us
want to do the right thing by the various
segments of this great country of ours.
We on the farms must have an adequate
Income, otherwise we cannot provide the
food for the people of New York and the
industrial East. Everything farmers buy
today costs far more than in 1939. We
all know that.
Mr. JENSEN. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. H. CARL ANDERSEN. I am
glad to yield to the gentleman from
Iowa who these 12 years in Congress has
fought consistently for agriculture. No
man in Congress has done more than has
the gentleman from Iowa [Mr. JENSEN]
in awakening the people to the great
need for soil conservation in America.
Mr. JENSEN. Is it not a fact that ap-
proximately 80 percent of the initial
cost of every manufactured article on
an average is paid out for wages, so it
Is an idle gesture and of no use whatever
to attempt to control prices without also
controlling wages?
Mr. H. CARL ANDERSEN. Eighty-
two percent is the correct figure, I be-
lieve. When I buy that wagon for $350,
labor, somewhere along the line receives
about $270 in manufacturing wheels,
tires, lumber, steel box, and freight, coal,
and what have you.
Mr. JAVITS. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield for a question?
Mr. H. CARL ANDERSEN. I yield
to my good friend from New York, whose
only fault is his ardent desire for too
cheap food for his constituents.
Mr. JAVITS. May I ask the gentle-
man whether he does not feel it is right
that we in the city should at long last
begin to argue about these very things
we are discussing here as to whether we
are right or not?
Mr. H. CARL ANDERSEN. I can-
not feel too sorry for your consumers,
because it is a known fact that in the last
few years they have been paying a
smaller percentage of their income for
food than they paid in former years prior
to World War II.
Mr. JAVITS. The consumer certainly
does not think so.
Mr.   H.   CARL    ANDERSEN. Mr.
Chairman, let us defeat this amend-
ment, as it will result in a food scarcity
created just as the butter scarcity was

brought into being in 1942. To secure
ample food at reasonable prices, we must
have production and that production
cannot be secured by discouraging the
producer by an unfair roll-back. Let us
be reasonable.
Mr. HOLIFIELD. Mr. Chairman, I
rise in opposition to the pro forma
amendment.
Mr. Chairman, here we see the trouble
we get into when we start trying to dis-
cuss the roll-back proposition as of a
certain date, using one date for one
thing and another date for another.
I regret that I have to oppose the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from New York. I feel that the amend-
ment offered by the gentleman from
Georgia is the only workable way that
we can handle this thing. I am going
to admit right now that it gives the
farmer certain advantages; I think we
have got to admit that, but here is the
part that has me stopped: Even with the
freeze of wages and agricultural prices
as of a certain date, and other dates for
other commodities, the less roll-back
period there is involved the better chance
you have of making this stabilization
measure work.
Let me say further that even after we
pass this, unless the stand-by provisions
are immediately initiated you are going
to have inequities continue to arise, you
are going to continue to have maladjust-
ments in its operation because of the in-
flationary pressure and because of the
fact that people are going to think of
that age-old law, self-preservation, to
take care of No. 1; they are going to
withhold from the market; they are go-
ing to indulge in panic buying, they are
going to hoard inventories and all that
sort of thing. So for the moment I say
that the amendment to be offered by the
gentleman from Georgia must be ac-
cepted notwithstanding the fact that it
gives to the agricultural people a certain
advantage. You have got to recognize
that inequities are going to become part
of the law regardless of what period you
take, and the latest period you take is
the best period, and the period for wages
and agricultural prices must be identical;
in other words, it must bear with the
same weight on labor as it does on agri-
cultural commodities. Let us put this
bill into effect as fairly as possible by
preserving the status quo as of the freeze
period just as quickly as possible. Let
us not go back any further than we have
to go back, because as we go back we
enlarge the likelihood of additional
inequities.
Mr. BUCHANAN. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield?
Mr. HOLIFIELD. I yield.
Mr. BUCHANAN. The gentleman Is
referring to the amendment to be offered
by the gentleman from Georgia [Mr.
PACE]; is that not correct?
Mr. HOLIFIELD. Yes; and it is my
understanding that it will use exactly
the same period for agricultural produc-
tion as is used for wages; and I rise in
support of that, although I do not have
a single farmer in my district. I recog-

nize the equity of the amendment from
the standpoint of practical administra-
tion.
Mr. JACOBS. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. HOLIFEELD. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Indiana.
