the printing clerk out in the corridor, and I was back inside of five
minutes. But, as I have said, that is not material to the point at issue.
This doorkeeper, if he had exercised common intelligence, might have
known that I was not going out bareheaded to leave the Capitol; and if
I were, he could only note my departure. Mr. Speaker, I do not want
to punish this subordinate, and that is not my object in offering this
resolution. He was simply acting, as he believed, under the highest
authority here, and it certainly is the highest authority in this House,
fbr it has become greater than the House itself in a great many in-
stances, and I will say that my object in bringing up this matter now
is to call the attention of the country to the methods by which this
House is being governed under the present code of rules, and to the ar-
bitrary action by which the rights and privileges, not only of the mi-
nority, but of Representatives in their individual capacity, are inter-
fered with by the Speaker of the House.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman should confine himself to the ques-
tion of privilege which he states.
Mr. ENLOE. I am trying to do so, Mr. Speaker, and if I did not
think that the Speaker would probably hold that I had no question of
privilege and no privileges here, I would proceed to discuss that with-
out bringing in other matters.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman ought not to bring in other mat-
ters. He understands that that is not proper-
Mr. ENLOE. I understand that it is proper that I should confine
myself to the question of privilege, but-
The SPEAKER. The Chair hopes that the gentleman will act up
to his understanding.
Air. ENLOE (continuing). But I had asked the Chair to let ma
know-
The SPEAKER. The Chair has been listening to the gentleman's
statement of his question of privilege, and whenever the gentleman is
through the Chair will rule upon it.
Mr. ENLOE. Well, then, Mr. Speaker, without commenting upon
the conduct of the Speaker, or upon my motives in calling attention
to this matter, I desire now to direct the attention of the House to an-
other provision of the Constitution, which gives to the House the right
to compel the attendance of absent members. I read from section 5,
of Article I of the Constitution, which provides that-
Each House shall be the judge of the elections, returns, and qualifications
of its own members, and a majority of each shall constitute a quorum to do
business; but a s,naller number may adjourn from day to day, and may be au-
thorized to compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and un-
der such penalties as each House may provide,
Now, Mr. Speaker, if there is anything in the rules by which you
can go beyond compelling me, if I am an absentee, to come into this
House, if there is anything in the Constitution by which you can fasten
me up, and imprison me in this House, and say that I shall not leave
it for any purpose whatever, I want to know in what provision of the
Constitution or of the rules you find authority for issuing any such ar-
bitrary, unprecedented, dictatorial, and usurpatory orderas that. And
I should like to know, at this point, whether the Speaker did issue
such an order. I would like the Chair to answer that question.
The SPEAKER. Has the gentleman finished his presentation of the
question of privilege?
Mr. ENLOE. I have not completed it.
The SPEAKER. If he has, the Chair is ready to rule upon it.
Mr. ENLOE. I would like to know as to the question of fact. I
do not want to punish the subordinate.
The SPEAKER. Whenever the gentleman is through, the Chair is
ready to rule on the question of privilege.
Mr. ENLOE. The gentleman is not through. [Laughter.]      Icon-
elude, then, Mr. Speaker, that the subordinate must be excusable.

8374



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0299.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

I say that the issuance of such an order as that is no more warranted
than it would be if the Speaker should issue his order that the gentle-
man from Arkansas [Mr. ROGERS] should be " electrocuted" by the
Kemmier process recently adopted in the State of New York. [Laugh-
ter.]
And then, Mr. Speaker, there is another reason why I would like
to have this matter settled. I would like to have it settled, not only
for mv own benefit, but for the protection of the rights and privileges
of members under the Constitution, not only in this Congress, but in
all future Congresses, so that we may know to what extent the power
of the Speakerof the House may be exercised. I will say, Mr. Speaker,
that if such arbitrary methods as this are pursued in dealing with the
Representatives of the people, the day will come when it will be nec-
essary to understand whether or not the Speaker may have a member
whom he dislikes executed on the floor of the House. Such arbitrary
and illegal acts are the parents of revolution.
I do not understand that this order was directed at me particularly,
but that it was a general order. I refused to obey it because it was in
violation of my rights as a Representative under the Constitution, and
in violation of the rights and the dignity of this House. -
Now, Mr. Speaker, [ think that this question ought to be settled
here.  I believe that it was settled in a preceding Congress.  In
order that the ruling which may now be made on the point may be
correct I wish to refer to something that was said in connection with
an occurrence in a preceding Congress-the F6rty-eighth Congress-
when there was a Speaker presiding over this House who was known
throughout the world wberever parliamentary law is known as one of
its ablest expounders and one of the fairest men that ever presided over
a oeliberative body. The question then arose upon the right of a Rep-
resentative from Massachusetts, Mr. Long, who, when he attempted to
enter the House, was under the same provision that I have recited de-
nied admission to the floor of the House by a doorkeeper. Mr. Long
came into the House and prestnted the question of privilege; and in
discussing it he used language which, if the Speaker will permit, I will
have the Clerk read.
The Clerk read as follows:
It should be remembered that this is a personal right; that the constitutional
provision and all rules and laws relating to personal rights should be construed
very strictly; and that no member, either in his representative or his personal
capacity, should be excluded unless the right to exclude him is very clear. Now,
it is doubtful whether the constitutional provision applies any further than to the
ordinary proceedings of the House, the transaction of business, and whether
it applies at all to the regulation of the movement of members; and further
than that, I take it that the constitutional right of each House to regulate its
own proceedings does not apply to the personal attendance of members, be-
cause there is another provision in the Constitution which regulates that mat-
ter.
The provision is that the House may compel the attendance of absent mem-
bers. That provision also must be construed strictly, because it affects a per-
sonal right. It gives the House no power over the persons of members present.
no authority with regard to keeping members in the Hail; it simply gives the
House power to compel the attendance of absent members, and a member must
be absent before the House has, in this way, any constitutional right over him.
Mr. ENLOE. Now, Mr. Speaker, I have stated the facts. I repeat
that I was not an absentee. I had not been absent from the House.
I was not brought in here under an order of the House. I was here
answering to my name upon the roll-call, not leaving the House ex-
cept -to go within the Capitol to attend to my business, and coming
back here inside of five minutes from the time this incident occurred.
I bring up this question not so much because I felt the personal indig-
nity, for I understood that this doorkeeper was exercising what he be-
lieved to be legal authority, but because it involves the highest con-
stitutional and personal rights of members of the House. I disputed
that authority, and would have disputed it to any extent, regardless of
who might have been executing or attempting to exercise it. I went
out and performed my business and returned here.
The Speaker of the House, in my opinion, if he has issued such an'
order as that (and I have not yet ascertained whether he did or not),
did so in violation of law, in violation of the rules of the House, in
violation of the Constitution, and in violation of the personal rights
and privileges of members ot the House. And I hope when we get a
ruling on the point of order we shall know whether or not there has
been such an attempt at the exercise of arbitrary power by the Speaker
ofthis House.
Mr. CANNON. Will my friend allow me a question at this point?
Do I understand that the gentleman, notwithstanding the obstruction
by the doorkeeper, did pass out?
Mr. ENLOE. Certainly, but after violent hands had been laid on
me by the doorkeeper in attempting to prevent me.
Mr. CANNON. Force was not exercised by the officer to such an
extent that the gentleman was prevented from going? Was the gen-
tleman injured?
Mr. ENLOE. Oh, perhaps it was a case of neanus molliter imposit.
The gentleman will understand-
Mr. CANNON. I am asking the question in good faith.
Mr. ENLOE. Oh, he did not do me any personal violence. If lie
had I would have dealt with him as I would with the man who issued
theorderit hehad attempted it.  [Criesof "Oh!" "Oh!"andderisive
laughter on the Republican side.]
The SPEAKER. The Chair is ready to rule upon the question.

Mr. CANNON. Will my friend from Tennessee tell us where he
keeps his grave-yard? [Laughter.]
Mr. ENLOE. I keep it where the gentleman from Illinois keeps
his-buried under my tongue. [Laughter.]
Now, Mr. Speaker, there is another remark to which I wish to call
attention, which was used by the Representative from Massachusetts
[Mr. LONG] in discussing this question. He said:
The rules of the House are not valid unless they are authorized by the Con-
stitution. Mly point is in regard to the first rule, which has been read, which
says that every member shall be present and shall not absent himself without
leave of the House; that no power is given by the Constitution to the House to
so far abridge the personal liberty of a member that he can not go and come as
he pleases, but If he goes and is absent then the power is given by the Consti-
tution to the House to compel his attendance.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I offer this resolution as a question of the high-
est privilege.
The Speaker held the resolution in order as a privileged matter;
and, on motion of Mr. WHITTHORNE, it was referred to the Judiciary
Committee.
The SPEAKER. The Chair is ready to pass upon the question, and
would like the attention of the House for a moment.
The rights and privileges of all the members of the House, in the
discharge of their fnctions, are sacred, and the House can undertake
no higher duty than the conservation of all those rights and privileges
intact. And even if the case arises under dubious circumstances it is
proper for the House to pause und give suitable heed to any question
which any member raises with regard to his rights and privileges as a
member. It is for the House alone to determine what they are.
In this case the gentleman from Tennessee [Mr. ENLOE] has em-
bodied his complaint, and the remedy therefor in the shape of a res-
olution for the House to pass upon, if it be a question of privilege.
The Chair thinks that the question ought to be passed upon by the
ttous. The rules of the House make provision for obtaining, and
for the retention of, a quorum of its members in cases provided for un-
der the rules. In order to accomplish that, the rules of the House
require, whenever a call of the House is ordered, that the doors shall
be closed. Such closing of the doors, in the opinion of the Chair, is to
prevent any member from going out. It is done for the purpose of
keeping such members as are already here, and retaining those who
may be brought here after having been sent for by the orderof the House.
But that is the opinion which the Chair entertains as an individual
member of the House.
The Speaker of the House has issued no order with regard to the
matter; but in response to a question of the Doorkeeper, or one of his
assistants, as to the meaning ot the rule, the Chair stated that to be
his opinion, and the Doorkeeper has acted upon it apparently, subject
always and of course to the decision of the House upon an examina-
tion. As this resolution raises the question of privilege directly, which
may be disposed of by the House, the Chair rules that it is admissible,
and is before the House for consideration.
Mr. CANNON. Mr. Speaker-
Mr. WHITTHORNE. Will my friend yield to me for a moment?
Mr. CANNON. For a moment. How long does the gentleman
*ant?
Mr. WHITTHORNE. Ionly desire to make this suggestion, in view
of the allegations made by my colleague, having not consulted withany
person whatever. I believe, if this presents a breach of his privileges,
as a member of this House, it presents also and equally a breach of the
privileges of every member of the House, without regard to sides. I
believe it involves a very grave question; and I therefore move to re-
fer the re3olution to the Committee on the Judiciary of the House to
make an inquiry and report upon it,
Mr. CANNON. I think that is entirely proper, and I hope that
unanimous consent will be given that that disposition be made of the
matter.
Mr. WHITTHORNE. I trust that my friend from Tennessee will
yield to that suggestion.
Mr. BREWER. I think the committee ought to have power to in-
vestigate as to the facts. There is no such power given in the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to the suggestion of the gentle-
man from Tennessee that the resolution be referred to the Committee
on the Judiciary?
There was no objection, and it was so ordered.
Mr. WHITTHORNE. With leave to report at any time.
ORDER OF BUSINESS.
Mr. PERKINS was recognized.
Mr. ROGERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of order.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman will state it.
Mr. ROGERS. Mr. Speaker, on yesterday while the gentleman from
Illinois, chairman of the Committee on Appropriations, was occupying
the floor, he made this statement:
I will place in the RECORD a statement of the special orders that were made in
the Fiftieth Congress, and that have been made in this.
Mr. CANNON. I reserve the point of order that this is not the
proper time-

1890.

8375



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0300.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

AUGUST 9,

ir. ROGERS. The gentleman need not reserve the poidit of order.
If I am out of order the Chair will overrule me.
Mr. CANNON. I have no objection to the gentleman making his
statement in proper time, but at present we are working under a spe-
cial order, which I hold excludes him.
Mr. ROGERS. If allowed, Mr. Speaker, I will proceed. I repeat,
the gentleman from Illinois said he would place on record a statement
showing the special orders made in the Fiftieth Congress by the House
df Representatives. He then went on to say:
Why, at one time, through a resolution reported by the Committee on Rules,
yen made special orders covering sixteen days. Here they are.
And then follows in the RECORD, without having read a line or a
word of it, nearly or quite three columns of matter touching that sub.
ject, in very fine print-I am not printer enough to know what style
o1 type it is-
Mr. SPRINGER. Nonpareil.
Mr. ROGERS. Nonpareil, my friend from Illinois says.
After which the gentleman proceeds to make some remarks, which I
will not read, and was in the act of sitting down when the gentleman
from Ohio [Mr. MCKINLEY] rose and said:
I ask to print in the RECORFD the number of Fridays consumed by special
orders at the first session of the Fiftieth-Congress or taken away from the con-
sideration of private bills.
Then follows:
Mr. RooEas. I object to any printing in, the RECORD either by the gentleman
from Ohio or the gentleman from nlinois.
After which I find the following:
Mr. CANNON. Too late, my friend.
That I did not hear, and I do not know whether it took place or not.
Whereupon Mr. MCKINLEY said:
I ask that it be read in the time of the gentleman from Illinois [Mr. C"Nos].
Then, as will be seen by an examination of the RECORD, there fol-
lows a half column of the matter to which the gentleman from Ohio re-
ferred.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman has stated enough so that it seems
to the Chair that this is not the proper time to bring it up, after the
gentleman from Kansas has been recognized. At the proper time that
question can be brought up.
Mr. ROGERS. Mr. Speaker, can I not move to correct the RECORD?
The SPEAKER. The Chair does not think the gentleman can do it
after the gentleman from Kansas has been recognized under the order
of the House, but at the proper time the Chair will entertain the mo-
tion.
Mr. ROGERS. Mr. Speaker, I desire to be heard a very brief time
on that.
The SPEAKER. The Chair thinks under the order the House has
just adopted, the gentleman from Kansas [Mr. PERKINS] having been
recognized, that the gentleman from Arkansas [Air. ROGERS] is not
entitled to make the motion at this time.
Mr. PERKINS. The statement of the Chair indicates that oppor-
tunity will be given to the gentleman from Arkansas later to bring the
question up.
Mr. CANNON. There is no disposition to evade a hearing of it at
the proper time.
Mr. ROGERS. I insist that by the practice of the House on this very
day I have the right to raise this question at this time. This morning
alter the Journal had been read-well, let us go back for a moment.
On yesterday we took a vote upon the passage of the resolution for this
special order. It was developed on the last vote thatthere was no quo-
rum, and this morning when we met there was no quorum. We had
a roll-call and procured a quorum. We then approved the Journal.
We then had a unanimous consent recognized by the Speaker, asked by
the gentleman from Ohio [Mir. MCKINLEY], and the bill presented by
him was passed, and then thegentleman from Tennessee [Mr. ENLOR]
rose to a question of the highest privilege. Notwithstanding the Speaker
had entertained the unanimous consent of the gentleman from Ohio, the
gentleman from Tennessee was cut off. The special order was then
adopted. The gentleman from Tennessee was then recognized. And
now, Mr. Speaker, the practice, the uniform practice, after the reading
of the Journal every morning, is the correction of the RECORD. This
morning I am cut off from the right to correct the RECORD. And
yet we can have a unanimous consent asked, as the Speaker says, for
the passageofa bill, and the passageof thatbill. Now, ifthatistobe
the way in which the business of the House is to be done, I simply de-
sire that it shall go to the country, in this connection, that while the
gentleman from Ohio can get recognition for a unanimous consent I
am not allowed, practically at the same stage of proceeding, to rise for
the purpose of even correcting the RECORD.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Kansas will proceed.
INDIAN APPROPRIATION BILL.
Mr. PERKINS. Mr. Speaker-
Mr. SPRINGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to a parliamentary inquiry.
How long will this debate now continue on the Indian bill ?
The SPEAKER. This debate will continue two hours.
Mr. SPRINGER. From this time 9

The SPEAKER. From this time.
Mr. PERKINS. I desire, Mir. Speaker, to arrange with those who
are opposed to this bill as to a fair division of the time. Under the
rule recently adopted there are two hours for general debate, and it
there is any one upon the other side who desires recognition to control
an hour of that time I am quite willing that he shall be recognized for
that hour.
Mr. CANNON. I will say to my friends that I myself desire very
briefly-I think inside of ten minutes-to say something about some
of the Senate amendments by way of suggestion, inquiry, and possibly
of criticism.
Mr. PERKINS. Mr. Speaker, I will yield fifteen minutes to the
gentleman from Arkansas [M r. PEEL], my colleague upon the com-
mittee.
Mr. BRECKINRIDGE, of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, before the gen-
tleman from Arkansas proceeds, I rise to a parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Kansas has the floor.
Mr. BRECKINRIDGE, of Kentucky. He has yielded fifteen minutes
to the gentleman from Arkansas [Mr. PEEL]. It is upon the rule.
I desire to ask the Speaker's construction of the rule that was adopted,
as to whether any one in the House will have the right to ask for the
reading of any of the amendments upon which a vote is to be taken,
either before or after the debate.
The SPEAKER. Any member would have had the right before the
debate began. The debate has begun.
Mr. BRECKINRIDGE, of Kentucky. That may have been a right,
but it was wholly an illusory one, for there was no opportunity to pro-
ceed under it.
The SPEAKER. There was opportunity if gentlemen had not been
engaged in other pursuits.
Mr. BRECKINRIDGE, of Kentucky. I was not engaged in any
other pursuits.
The SPEAKER. No, the gentleman from Kentucky was not; but
ths Chair makes the general observation that in the confusion of affairs
the matter passed to debate.
Mr. BRECKINRIDGE, of Kentucky. I accept the Speaker's defi-
nition "in the confusion of affairs;" but there was really no oppor-
tunity for anybody to have any of the amendments read.
The SPEAKER. In the consideration of questions of order and
privilege, and so forth-
Mr. BRECKINRIDGE, of Kentucky. The result at all events is
that the House does not have the opportunity to have the amendments
read.
The SPEAKER. The amendments are already printed, so that the
House sufers no deprivation.
Mr. PEEL. Mr. Speaker, I would like to have a little better order
before I proceed.
The SPEAKER. The House will please be in order. The House
must be in order. Will gentlemen please resume their seats and cease
conversation? Will the House please be in order? Will gentlemen
in the aisles please take their seats?
Mr. PEEL. ir. Speaker, it will be remembered that upon yester-
day, after the resolution of the Committee on Rules, under which we
are now proceeding, had been submitted, I asked unanimous consent
to non-concur in the Senate amendments to the Indian appropriation
bill and ask for a conference. At that time I gave some few reasons
why I pursued that course. I want to say now I desire it distinctly
understood that by doing that I did not in any way intend to approve
the ihethod or the theory upon which the rule proceeds. I believe
that the bill should have been taken up in the ordinary way. I be-
lieve the chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs should have been
recognized to make a motion to go into Committee of the Whole and
take up these amendments one by one. Had it not been for the pe-
culiar condition of the Indian service I should have been willing to
oppose the adoption of the resolution.
I understand the objection made on this side of the House was alto-
gether against the principle of the rule, and not particularly the rule
itself. Gentlemen objected to having to be forced to non-concur in all
these amendments in gross without an opportunity to vote to concur
or non-concur upon each one. I recognize that to be the correct princi-
ple-to require the House to vote upon each question as it is presented.
But, Mr. Speaker, the Indian appropriation bill occupies a different
relation to the public service from any other bill of this character we
are called upon to pass, and the reasons given then, and the reasons
contained in a letter which I hold in my hand, and which I shall ask to
have read, given by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secre-
tary of the Interior, are the real reasons why I pursued that course,
and have supported the resolution in order to get the bill passed.
The Clerk read as follows:
DEPARTMENT OF TIHE iNTFAIOI , OFFICE OF INDIAN AiwAIS,
Washingon, Augu$al , 1890.
Sin: On the 2d of June last I had the honor to address you a communication,
copy herewith, in which attention was called to the fact that the failure of
Congress to pass tile Indian appropriation bill would seriously embarrass this
office in supplying the Indians for the next fiscal year. Since that time more
than two months lave passed and the bill has not yet become a law. The fact
that Congress extended the appropriations of last year, first for thirty and then

8376



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0301.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

for fourteen days, has relieved this office only in a very slight degree. May
23 bids for supplying the Indian service with subsistence, clothing, agricult-
ural implements, etc., were opened by me in New York and awards were
made to the lowest and best bidders. Under the law each bidder has to deposit
with his bid a certified check for 5 per cent. of the value of the articles bid for.
Those whose bids have been rejected have had their checks returned, but the
checks of those receiving awards have been held by me since May 23, and must
be held until contracts and bonds have been executed, but none can be executed
until the appropriation bills have passed Congress and become a law. The
amount of certified checks held by me since May 23. andstill in my possession,
is over 5,J0000.
But while this maybe considered a hardship to those persons who have re-
ceived awards, it is nothing when compared with the difficulties this offico has
been laboring under since the 1st of July in order to relieve the immediate
wants of the Indians for food and the more serious causes which will result
during the winter on account of non-delivery of clothing, blankets, and other
articles for which contracts must he made, and which must be nsanufactured,
inspected, and shipped to the distant agencies in Montana, Idaho,Washington,
etc., before the cold weather sets in. The treaty with the Sioux requires that
their clothing be dehvered to them "at the agency house on the reservation
herein named on or before the 1st day of Augustof each year, for thirty years,"
a provision which it is impossible to comply with.
Since the 1st of July, in order to keep the Ifidians from actual want, beef and
flour amounting to over 115,000 have had to be purchased in open muarketat the
lowestobtainable rates, but these rates were, in many instances, considerably
higher than contract rates, and as theamounts to be appropriated have already
been fixed, these high .r prices will necessitate a reduction in the quantities
to be purchased, and may result in short rations for the Indians.
As an example of the loss this delay of the passage of the Indian aupropria-
(ion bill entails to the Government, I would state that one of the bids for beef
received and accepted by me was for 1,000,000 pounds at $2,62, "delivery to be
made In August," but the delay in the passage of the Indian bill will prevent
the delivery of the beef. The next lowest bidder is at $2.74, and the contract
must be made with this bidder at a loss to the Indians, on this one transaction,
of $1,200.
I respectfully ask that a copy of this communication be transmitted to the
President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, with
the request that early action, looking towards the final passage of the Indian
appropriation bill, be taken.
\'cry respectfully,
T. J. MORGAN, Commissioner.
The lion. SEcETARY OF THE INTRtIoR.
Mr. PEEL. Mr. Speaker"'being myself a member of the Committee
on Indian Affairs, having also been a member of the subcommittee
who made up this bill, and knowing the situation of the Indian serv-
ice, knowing it was much embarrassed, and that much loss would result
in consequence of the delay, I was induced, as I stated, to take the
course I did and the course that I have continued to pursue.
Now, I desire, Mr. Speaker, to call the attention of the House to a
few of the amendments and the main amendment that the Senate has
placed upon this bill. Many of the amendments to the bill are simply
formal and amount to really nothing, but the important items I will
briefly allude to.
The iargest item-$400,000-is appropriated under the treaty of 1866
made with the Creek Nation of Indians. That same question has been
reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs to the House in a separate
bill, with the recommendation that it do pass, and that the money be
appropriated. This money is due to the Indians, as I have said, under
the treaty of 1866, and is bearing interest at the rate of 5 per cent.
per annum, and $20,000 a year has been paid to the Indians eversince
the treaty of 1866 was concluded.
Mr. CANNON. What amendment is that-amendment 16?
Mr. PEEL. I do not know the number. It is to pay the Creek
Nation of Indians $400,000.
Air. CANNON. Does my friend favor that amendment?
Mr. PEEL. I do; and I will give my reasons for it.
We move to non-concur in thatamendment because we want to see
what reasons the Senate have for putting.it in; but still I favor it. It
ison page 13, amendment No. 15. The reason I would, as an individ-
ual member of this House, favor the payment of the amount is this:
The money is unquestionably theirs; it is not ours. In other words,
I say that by the stipulation of the treatyof 1866 itis part of the money
that is dde fbr the Oklahoma country. It is now lying in the Treasury
of the United States, bearing 5 per cent. interest, to be paid by the
Government annually, and it has been paidfor over twenty years with-
out appropriation. They ask for this money, and I would grant it to
them, because it would stop the interest on the part of the Government,
and thereby save $20,000 a year.
Mr. CANNON. If my friend will allow me right there. First, is
there an estimate or recommendation from the President, the Secre-
tary, or the Commissioner of Indian Affairs?
Mr. PEEL. I will say in reply to the gentleman from Illinois that
we have no estimate from the Secretary of the Treasury in reference to
this item, but there is a recommendation from the Interior Department
to our committee, recommending that this amount be appropriated and
paid, they do not say whether in an appropriation bill or in a separate
bill. A bill was prepared and I introduced the bill myself. The bill
was before our committee, they reported it back as a separate measure,
and it is now upon the Calendar.
Mr. CANNON. Has that met the approval of the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs and the Secretary of the Interior?
Mr. PEEL. It did. They recommended its payment, because itis
a plain provision of the treaty of 1866.
Mr. CANNON. Is the letter contained in an executive document?
Mr. PEEL. I think it is in print. I sent that bill up there myself
for the consideration of the Commissioner.

Mr. CANNON. I want to ask another question in good faith, be-
cause I would be glad to see what reasons there are for assigning a
recommendation for this appropriation. Believing as I do that it is
most vicious and extravagant, I would like to see the proof so that I
could form my opinion of it.
Mr. PEEL. I do not know how the gentleman can consider this to
be vicious and extravagant when no officer on the part of the Govern-
ment has ever denied the existence of this debt. Under the treaty of
1866 we have recognized it and have paid interest on it at 5 per cent.
for twenty years, and that interest has been paid without an appro-
priation; but the Treasury Department held, when the counsel for the
Creek Nation called upon them for the payment of the principal, that
it would require an act of Congress to appropriate the money to pay it
under the treaty.
The reason given in the communication from the Secretary of the
Interior, if I recollect right, was that there was no dispute that this
was a just claim, that it was plainly provided for by the treaty, and
that there was no reason why they should not have their money. We
were paying interest upon it annually, and they seem to be in a con-
dition to receive it, and therefore it was recommended that it be paid.
The next item of magnitude is the one for the fulfillment of the
treaty made with the Chippewa Indians of Minnesota. That item, I
believe, amounts in the amendment to $350,00l0. I have not had time
to examine the question, but only $220,000 of that sum is covered by
the treaty, and I think there is $100,000 included in the item that is
for something else, which I have not had time to investigate.
I will say, however, that it I should be a member of the committee
of conference I shall insist upon the Senate receding as far as that item
is concerned, if what I understand to be the fact about it is true. But
the $250,000 to carry out the treaty under which we acquired over
4, 000,0O0acresof land, in pursuance ofan act passed by the Filtieth Con-
gress, it seems to me ought to be paid as a matter of course, and there
is no good reason that I can see why it should not be paid.
There is another item that I want to allude to. It is the item to dis-
burse among the Miamis of the Indian Territory some $27,000, a trust
fund that is held for them in the Treasury. We are paying interest
upon that money every year, and they now ask that it be distributed
among them. As in the case of the Creeks, we reported this measure
in a separate bill, ant therefore, in making up the Indian appropria-
tion bill, we did not think proper to put it in.
Mr. CANNON. Upon that point I desire to ask the gentleman a ques-
tion. This is a trust fund upon which annual interest is paid to these
Indians, is it?
Mr. PEEL. It is.
Mr. CANNON. And the interest is used for their education and sub-
sistence.
Mr. PEEL. Not for their subsistence, because they are self-support-
ing. It is used for the expenses of their tribal affairs and for their edu-
cation.
Mr. CANNON. And now it is proposed to take the principal of this
trust fund and pay it to the Mianis per capita, as in the case of the Creeks.
Mr. PEEL. Yes.
Mr. CANNON. In view of the fact that this bill is full of appfopria-
tions for the support of Indians, with and without treaty stipulations,
and in view of the chance of these Indians becoming, at some time, a
charge upon the Government, does my friend from Arkansas think it is
wise to take the principal of this trust fund and pay it over into the
hands of these individual Indians?
Mr. PEEL. In this particular case I do not think that that is ex-
actly what we ought to do. These are not 'blanket" Indians. They are
civilized; they cultivate their farms; they raise their crops as well as
the citizens of Illinois or of Kansas. They have already taken their
lands under allotment in severalty, and under the Oklahoma bill they
can become citizens of that Territory and of the United States. The
last Congress appropriated about the same amount, $25,000, to be dis-
tributed among them per capita. They are self-supporting and have
been as long as I have had knowledge of them. The Government has
never given them a dollar of gratuity since I have been in Congress.
Mr. CANNON. And yet I find no estimate for this.
Mr. PEEL. No.
Mr. CANNON. It is recommended by the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs?
Mr. PEEL. It is.
Mr. CANNON. Has it been recommended by the Secretary of the
Interior?
Mr. PEEL. It is recommended; but I do not care whether it is
recommended or not. The chairman of the Committee on Indian Af-
fairs and myself are perfectly familiar with the matter. We know
these Indians, and we know they are as capable of taking care of their
share of this money as the gentleman from Illinois or myself, and they
are entitled to it. It has been lying in the Treasury for years, and now
they want it distributed and they have a right to receive it.
Mr. CANNON. Does not my friend think it is due to the House, to
the Committee on Indian Affairs, and to the country that recommen-
dations made touching such matters as the distribution of this trust
fund should appear in black and white, so that they can be referred to?

1890.

8377



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0302.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

AUGUST 9,

Mr. PEEL. Mr. Speaker, my recollection is-I am not sure about
it because I did not expect to be asked that question-that upon this
particular item, like the Creek item, we had a report from the Com-
missioner of Indian Affairs and the Secretary of the Interior recom-
mending this legislation, because we reported a bill which is now on
the Calendar, providing for finishing the allotment of their lands and
the disbursement of this trust fund, and looking to a complete wind-
ing up of their tribal affairs.
[Here the hammer lell.]
Mr. McMILLIN. Mr. Speaker, there will be time on this side, I
suppose, and I suggest that the gentleman from Arkansas be allowed
to proceed in that time.
The SPEAKER. The Chair would like to inquire whether any ar-
rangement has been made with reference to division of time?
Mr. DOCKERY. There has been none.
Mr. PERKINS. As the gentleman from Illinois desired to present
some objections, I suggested to him that at the conclusion of the re-
marks of the gentleman from Arkansas [Mr. PEEL] he should have
fifteen minutes, and should be recognized to control the other hour.
Mr. CANNON. I have no desire to control the hour, but I would
like to have fifteen minutes.
The SPEAKER. How much time does the gentleman from Mis-
souri [Mr. DOCKEicY] desire?
Mr. DOCKERY. Ten minutes.
The SPEAKER. Then the gentleman from Illinois [Mr. CANNON]
will be recognized now for fifteen minutes.
Mr. DOCKERY. The hour in opposition to be controlled on this
side of the House?
The SPEAKER. The Chair will recognize gentlemen on that side.
Mr. CANNON. Mr. Speaker, in my time I would he glad to ask the
gentleman from Arkansas [Mr. PEEL] another question. As to the ap-
propriation of $400,000 to pay over to the Creeks and the Miamis these
trust funds, is my friend informed whether any portion of this money,
and, if so, what portion, is to be paid to attorneys or agents for present-
ing this matter to Congress?
Mr. PEEL. I will answer the gentleman. As to the Creek matter,
I am certain there is not a cent to go, directly or indirectly, to anybody
but the Indians themselves; at least, if there is, I have never heard of
it. The Miamis have attorneys employed; but whether the agreement
with them applies to this money, whether it applies to the allotment
of lands, I am not advised.
I wish to say, however, that we have nothing to do with that mat-
ter. If the contracts are approved by the Department, that is a mat-
ter for them, and not for us. The Senate put on this provision for dis-
bursing the money per capita; that is all there is in it. We can con-
cur or non-concur, as we see proper. I say, let this money be turned
over. Whenever an Indian tribe is sufficiently advanced in civilization
to receive its land in individual allotments and to control its own
affairs, I say give the Indians the control of their own affairs, and let
that much of the Indian service be taken from the shoulders of the
Government.
Mr. CANNON. I will refer to that matter again in a moment; but
in the first place I wish to call attention to another matter. This In-
flian bill as passed by the Senate appropriates $7,283,292.76, being an
increase of $1,260,654.01 over the bill as passed by the House. The
average total-and I ask attention to this-the average total of appro-
priations in the Indian bills for the eight fiscal years 1881 to 188, in-
clusive, is $5,278,000, or $2,000,000 less than the amount of this bill
as passed by the Senate.
Mr. SAYERS. Does not the sum total of the bill of last year include
the Choctaw claim, amounting to between two and a half and three
million dollars?
Mr. CANNON. I am coming to that in a moment. But I first call
attention to the average of these bills from 1881 to 1888. Five and a
quarter million of dollars in round numbers was the average amount
that they carried for eight years. Now, for 1889 the Indian appropria-
tion bill was unduly swollen by an appropriation of $2,858,000 to pay
the Choctaw judgment. If that item had been omitted the act would
have appropriated only, in round numbers, $5,404,000, or $1,878,000
less than the pending bill as it comes from the Senate. Now, for the
year 1890, the Indian appropriation act was again unduly swollen by
two unusual items: First, a payment to the Pottawatomie Indians of
an old award, with interest for twenty years, amounting to $361,000,
and a payment of $1,912,000 to the Seminole Indians for certain lands.
If these two items had been omitted, the act of last year would have
appropriated only $5,802,000, or $1,463 000 less than the pending bill.
Mr. SAYERS. I would like to ask the gentleman whether there are
any items in the bill under consideration which might be considered
extraordinary; that is, items which could be put upon a par with the
Choctaw claim as swelling this bill unduly.
Mr. CANNON. I will say to my friend that there is an item to
which I will refer in a moment, an item of $400,000 to be paid to the
Creeks, a part oftheirtrust lund, which swells the bill that much. But
I want to say that it is no answer to the House or the country to say
that the Indian appropriation bill as proposed by this House is less
than it was last year or the year before last; because there having been

an appropriation last year of the extraordinary item of nearly $3,000,-
000 to pay the Choctaw judgments, the bill for the present year ought
to have fallen that amount, unless there were other extraordinary
items. It seems to me that we are liable to forget what is a proper
line of appropriation if we listen to the specious claim that this bill is
less than the bill of one or two years ago.
Having said that much, I want to speakabout this appropriation for
the Creeks. There are over one hundred amendments coming to us
from the Senate, many of them formal, some of them material. I do
not believe that the House ought to agree to this proposition to pay
$400,000 to the Creek Indians per capita from their trust fund. I do
not believe such a payment is for the interest of the Creek Indians on
the one hand or the Government on the other. If gentlemen w'll turn
to page 13 of the bill they will observe that the House appropriates 5
per cent. intereston this amount of $400,000, and $275,000 additional.
Now, the Senate lets that stand and puts on an amendment proposing
to pay from this trust fund--
Mr. PEEL. If the gentleman will allow me a moment, perhaps I
can give him some light on this matter of the $275,000 interest. It
must be remembered that the Creeks have $"2,000,000 in the United
States Treasury, which went there as the proceeds of the purchase of
the Oklahoma country; and this is the interest upon that.
Mr. CANNON. Oh, no; let me read from the bill:
For interest on 675,168, at the rate of 5 per cent. per annum, to be expended
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, under provisions of third
article of treaty of June 14, 1866, $33,758.40; in all, E69,968.40.
This is not interest on account of money due for the purchase of lauds,
but it arises under the third article of the treaty of June 14, 1866. The
Senate lets that stand and then turns round and appropriates by way
of amendment $400,000 to the Creeeks out of their trust fund, under
the same third article.
Mr, GIFFORD. Is not this interest due?
Mr. CANNON. No; I think it is not due.
Mr. PEEL. The gentleman will allow me to correct him. The in-
terest is due this year and had to be appropriated for, as a matter of
course. The House made that appropriation.
Mr. CANNON. I do not understand the facts as the gentleman
from Arkansas [Mr. PEEL] does. I merely call attention to the mat-
ter that at any rate it may be inquired about and care be taken that
we do not make a double payment.
Now, one further word. I hold in my hand the treaty of 1866. Let
me read a portion of the third article:
Four hundred thousand dollars shall be paid per capita in money to said Creek
Nation, unless otherwise directed by the President of the United States, under
the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, as the same may accrue from the
sale of lands to other Indians. * * * The United States agree to pay to said
Indians, in such manner and for such purposes as the Secretary of the Interior
may direct, interest at the rate of 5 per cent. per annum from the date of the
ratification of this treaty on the amount hereinbefore agreed upon, etc.
So you see in the language of the third article of the treaty that the
sale of the lands by the Creeks to other Indians must be made, and
the $400,000 must come in and be paid per capita to them unless the
President thinks otherwise. That is just what the President has di-
rected, and this $400,000 goes into a trust fund and 5 per cent. is paid
upon it for the education, perhaps the support, of the Creek Indians.
Here is the proposition, though, without any written recommendation
from the President, who has the power to make this reservation and
did make it. It is proposed to appropriate and pay this sum per capita
to the Creeks. I do not understand that it is necessary to do it for
the preservation of the Indians from starvation or want.
It is said that they are civilized. Well, they live down there and
they are rich in lands, some of them; a few may be rich in cattle and
horses, but a great many, I know from having been down there, are
not rich in either. They have, however, I presume, enough to live
upon. There is no danger of starvation this year. They have started
some schools and the Government has started some, and the Govern-
ment has an agent and agency there under the treaty stipulations.
We are still expending money for their support; and with the Creeks
and Miamis, in my opinion, it is a mistake, akin to the most reckless
extravagance, to appropriatethis money, the principal of the trust fund,
and pay it out per capita to them. If they should not have a sufficient
fund for educational purposes or to support them in the event of famine
or of great suffering from crop failure, then we will be called upon to
appropriate again as a gift.
The Indian question is not yet settled either as to the Creeks, the
Miamis, or any other Indians. There is a public sentiment-I will not
stop to discuss it now-which justifies gentlemen in Congress in voting
liberal appropriations for the education and support of the Indians.
But it is a wise policy to keep for the Indians their trust funds intact and
let the interest be paid to them annually. Now, the Senate put on
this amendment, and I want to ask the House conferees and the Com-
mittee on Indian Affairs to go slow in this matter, and not only to non-
concur formally in the amendments, but to insist on the non-concur-
rence. For I have an impression that if you will go to the bottom of
this matter you will find that many people, I do not say improperly,
are interested, people all along the borders of the Indian Territory,
people in the Indian Territory other than the Indians themselves; pos-

8378



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0303.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

sibly delegates or representatives of the Territory may be interested
in these proceedings, and that it is not in the interest of the Indians
themselves, and I have an impression that it ought not to be upon this
bill.
Mr. PEEL. Will the gentleman yield for a question?
Mr. CANNON. Certainly.
Mr. PEEL. Do you think it good economy to keep the trust funds
of the Indians, when, as a matter of fact, they are as intelligent as
anybody, when they are able to dispose of them for themselves, per-
fectly competent to take charge of their own affairs, and yet that the
Government shall withhold this fund from them and pay interest
upon it ?
Mr. CANNON. I believe it is good economy to hold these trust
funds intact for the Creeks and all other Indians who are interested
in them for their education, and, if necessary, for their support, and
that it would be good economy, in the nature of things, to hold the
fund intact and use the interest for the education, perhaps the civiliza-
tion, of the Indians.
Mr. PEEL. Then, another question. When would you pay the
principal?
Mr. CANNON. I would not pay it until in the fullness of time the
Creeks and other Indians had taken on the burdens of citizenship;
until we had discharged our Indian agents; until they had become
adapted in fact, as it is hoped they may be in theory, to the body pol-
itic. But there are trust funds which from time to time have been
dissipated, like the trust fund of.the Cherokees-or rather, by way of
example, the Cherokees of North Carolina.
Perhaps these are the most intelligent Indians on the face of the
continent. Now, the principal of their trust fund for education has
been largely spent. Gradually the principal, year after year, has been
trenched upon fbr the payment of attorneys' fee and contracts made
with them, until it is now almost exhausted, and on this very bill is
an increasing appropriation from year to year for the education of the
children of the Eastern Cherokees in North Carolina without any treaty
stipulation whatever. And the Eastern Cherokees of North Carolina
are citizens of that State and have been for many years. are voters
and are as far ahead of the Creek Indians as day is ahead of night.
Yet I say again, with their trust fund dissipated, the Government of
the United States on this very bill, year by year, makes gifts and ap-
propriations for the education of their children. It is not, in my opin-
ion, good policy, and if I can help it by my vote this provision which
takes the trust funds in these cases and distributes them per capita
will not pass.
Mr. PERKINS. I suggest that the remaining hour be controlled by
the gentleman on the other side of the House [Mr. DOCKERY].
Mr. SAYE iS. We ought to have an hour for ourselves.
Mr. PERKINS. I yielded fifteen minutes of my time to the gen-
tleman from Arkansas [Mr. PEEL], and the gentleman from Illinois
[Mr. CANNON] has taken fifteen minutes from the other hour, so that
it gives us the same time remaining on each side.
The SPEAKER pro tenmpore (Mr. BREWER in the chair). The Chair
does not understand from which side the time occupied by the gentle-
man from lllinois [Mr. CANNON] is to be taken.
Mr. PERKINS. I would suggest that I was recognized and yielded
fifteen minutes to the gentleman from Arkansas [Mr. PEEL] out of the
first hour, and the gentleman from Illinois [Mr. CANNON] got recog-
nized for filteen minutes in the second hour.  My suggestion is that
each side has the same amount of time remaining.
Mr. DOCKERY. Very well; I am willing to keep company with
the gentleman from Illinois [Mr. CANNON] on this occasion.
Mr. PEEL, There are forty-five minutes remaining on each side
now.
Mr. DOCKERY. I yield five minutes to the gentleman from Texas
[Mr. SAYERS].
Mr. SAYERS. Ir. Chairman, I would like to have the attention
of the gentleman from Illinois [Mr. CANNON] with reference to one
item. I desire to call his attention to the seventy-third amendment,
on page 56. The amendment is as follows:
(73) To enable the Attorney-General to employ a special attorney for the
Mission Indians of Southern California, upon the recommendation of the Secre-
tary of the Interior, t2.500.
If I am not very much mistaken, an estimate covering this very same
appropriation has been sent repeatedly to the Committee on Appropria-
tions. I am not certain about it, but it is my recollection that such is
the case, and I would like to be informed by the gentleman from
Illinois if he has any information on the subject.
Mr. CANNON. I will say to my friend that I think it is entirely
probable that he is quite right. I think amendments 73 and 74 belong
in the sundry civil bill under the Department of Justice, if they ought
to be made at all, but they were of so slight importance in comparison
with the other matters I referred to, that I did not call attention to
them in my filteen minutes, but I am glad that my friend has done so.
Mr. SAYERS. My friend must remember that it is through j ustsuch
appropriations as are contained in the seventy-third and seventy-fourth
amendments that the jurisdiction of the Committee on Indian Affairs
bas trenched upon that of the Committee on Appropriations, as in the

cace of the payment of the Choctaw claim in the last Congress. It
should have been allowed to remain with the Committee on Appropria-
tions and reported on one of their bills.
Mr. CANNON. I will say to my friend [Mir. SAYERS] that I think
he is quite right about that matter, but I did not intend in my fifteen
minutes to bring up any question of this kind and have it mixed up
in the matter, because it seemed to me that $400, 000 to the Creeks is so
objectionable that I desired particularly to call attention of the House
to that.
Mr. SAYERS. Now, Mr. Chairman, I will invite the attention of
the committee, and especially that of my friend from Aikansas [Mr.
PEEL], to some amendments contained on page 50 of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro temnpore. The Chair will say that the gentleman
from Texas has two minutes remaining.
Mr. SAYERS. The gentleman from Missouri [Mr. DOCKERY] will
give me two minutes more, I think.
Mr. DOCKERY. Yes, sir.
Mr. SAYERS. I notice that the Senate increases the number of pri-
vates for the Indian service from 700 to 750 and the number of officers
from 70 to 75, and proposes to pay these officers at the rate of $15 per
month each. Will the gentleman from Arkansas inform me how much
these officers are now getting?
Mr. PEEL. Twelve dollars a month.
Mr. SAYERS. And this increaqes the pay of seventy-five officers
$3 a month.
Mr. PEEL. That is correct, I think.
Mr. SAYERS. On page 57 I notice another amendment by which
it is proposed to erect a school building at the Blackfeet agency,to cost
not exceeding $25,000. It occurs to me, Mr. Speaker, that when Con-
gress-
Mr. PERKINS. I will say to the gentleman from Texas [Mr. SAY-
ERS], if he will permit me, that there are two items of the same char-
acter and we shall ask the House to non-concur in both.
Mr. SAYERS. But what will the conferees on the partof the House
do?
Mr. PERKINS. I can not say as to that now.
Mr. DOCKERY. They will concur.
Mr. SAYERS. Will the conferees on the part of the House yield to
the Senate conferees?
Mr. PERKINS. I am very much disposed to say that I shall not.
I do not know as to the others.
Mr. SAYERS. I would ask my friend from Kansas [Mr. PERKINS]
or any member of the committee how much has been already expended
upon the new gymnasium. I notice an appropriation for the payment
of the debt on the new gymnasium.
Mr. PERKINS. I would say, Mr. Chairman, for the information of
my friend from Texas [Mr. SAYERS], that that was built from funds
contributed by private individuals. The Government did not contrib-
ute a dollar towards the erection of that gymnasium.
Mr. PEEL. That is at Carlisle.
Mr. PERKINS. But in its construction and equipment there has
been a burden of debt of $5,000 contracted, and as the Government
has contributed nothing toward it, the Indian Office has recommended
that we assume this indebtedness and pay it.
Mr. SAYERS. I find all through this bill not only increases of offi-
cials, but also increases of pay, by which a large number of officials
will be fastened upon the Government with increased pay. It occurs
to me that the conferees on the part of the House should insist that
all such amendments be stricken out. The building of aschool-house
to cost $25,000 at the Blackleet agency is extravagant and unnecessary.
Ninety-nine school-houses in every hundred, I might say nine hundred
and ninety-nine in every thousand, in the ULnited States do not cost
one-tenth of that.
Mr. ROGERS. They did not cost $1,500 each.
Mr. SAYERS. Not $1,500.
Mr. PERKINS. If it will not interrupt the gentleman, I wouldsug-
gest that this appropriation contemplates notonly the school building,
but the supporting house, the dormitories, and all thatpertains to that
industrial school.
Mr. SAYERS. It does notstate anything of thekind, Ibeg the gen-
tleman's pardon. It says:
Including construction of school building at Blackfeet agency in lMIontana, at
a cost not exceeding 1F25,000.
That is the proposition involved in the Senate amendment. The
dotting of all our extreme Western country with these Indian school
buildings at a cost of $25,090, at least $24,000 greater than the average
cost of school-houses in the United States for the white children of the
country, is an extravagance that will not meet the approval of the
people.
Mr. DOCKERY. A most extravagant proposition submitted here,
inasmuch as it shocks the economic nerves of the gentleman from
California [Mr. CLUNIE].
Mr. SAYERS. I now yield the balance of my time to the gentleman
from Missouri [Mr. DOCKERY].
The SPEAKER pro temnmpore. The gentleman from Texas has occu-
pied nine minutes.
