under the jurisdiction of the Sisseton Indian
Agency, South Dakota; to the Committee on
Public Lands.
S. 883. An act to authorize the taking and
destruction of dangerous weapons in certain
cases, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the District of Columbia.
S. 946. An act to permit credit, for pur-
poses of parole, for time served in a Federal
penal institution under an illegal convic-
tion or sentence in the case of a person who
is  subsequently   legally  convicted   and
sentenced for the same offense; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
S. 1140. An act to authorize credits to cer-
tain public agencies in the United States for
costs of construction and operation and
maintenance of flood protective levee sys-
tems along or adjacent to the lower Colorado
River in   Arizona, California, and Lower
California, Mexico; to the Committee on
Public Lands.
S. 1812. An act to amend the Immigration
Act of October 16, 1918, as amended; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
S. 1913. An act for the relief of Adelaide
Giovanna Summa; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
S. 2487. An act for the relief of Dominic
Arcella; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
S. 25C6. An act for the relief of Libuse
Cha'upnik Pavlish; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
S. 2695. An act for the relief of Stella Jean
Stathopoulou; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
S. 2772. An act for the relief of Thomas
N. Cole; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
S. 2927. An act for the relief of Edmon
Burgher; to the Committee on the Judiciary.

S. 2948. An act to authorize the sale of
certain land allotted to Clara Whitesell,
Standing Rock allottee No. 915; to the Com-
mittee on Public Lands.
S. 2981. An act for the relief of Giuseppe
Merlinet Forgnone; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
S. 3094. An act for the relief of Miriam
Rosenblum; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
S. 3107. An act for the relief of Boleslaw H.
Drobinski, his wife, Marjorie, and his daugh-
ter, Janina; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
S. 3157. An act for the relief of Setsuko
Takata and Catharina Takata; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
S. 3263. An act to amend Veterans' Prefer-
ence Act of 1944 with respect to certain moth-
ers of veterans; to the Committee on Post
Office and Civil Service.
S. 3367. An act for the relief of the law
firm of Hunt, Hill & Betts; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
S. 3426. An act to authorize the admission
into the United States of an alien possessing
special skill, namely, Gerhard Zahn, and his
wife; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
S. 3504. An act to promote the development
of improved transport aircraft by providing
for the operation, tefting, and modification
thereof; to the Committee on Interstate and
Foreign Commerce.
S. 3654. An act to amend section 3 of the
Postal Salary Act of July 6, 1945; to the Com-
mittee on Post Office and Civil Service.
S. 3724. An act for the relief of Maria Suli-
kowska Forbes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
S. 3889. An act to increase the amount of
Federal aid to State or Territorial homes for
the support of disabled soldiers and sailors of
the United States; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
S. 3960. An act to amend subsection (b) of
section 10 of the act of June 26, 1884, as
amended (U. S. C., title 46, sec. 599 (b)); to
the Committee on Merchant Marine and
Fisheries.
S. 3979. An act to fix the responsibilities
of the disbursing officer and of the auditor
of the District of Columbia, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the District
of Columbia.
S. 3987. An act to amend title 18, United
States Code; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
S. J. Res. 163. Joint resolution to designate
the reservoir above the Baldhill Dam in North
Dakota as Lake Ashtabula; to the Committee
on Pliblic Lands.
S. Con. Res. 100. Concurrent resolution pro-
viding for the printing of proceedings at the
unveiling of the statue of Brigham Young;
to the Committee on House Administration.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Mrs. NORTON, from the Committee on
House Administration, reported that that
committee had examined and found truly
enrolled bills and joint resolutions of the
House of the following titles, which were
thereupon signed by the Speaker:
H. R. 612. An act for the relief of Col.
W. M. Chubb;
H. R. 1618. An act for the relief of Kenneth
J. MacKenzie;
H. R. 1922. An act to amend section       10
of the Reclamation Project Act of 1939;
'H. R. 1988. An act for the relief of Leslie
A. Fry,
H. R. 2350. An act for the relief of Mrs.
Marion M. Martin Jones;
H. R. 2805. An act for the relief of John
F. Oettl;
H. R. 2854. An act for the relief of Wade I.
Noland;

12248



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0805.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

H. R. 3605. An act to provide for the docu-
mentation    of  the   Canadian-built   vessel
North Wind owned by a citizen of the United
States;
H. R. 4065. An act to provide for the re-
linquishment of mineral reservations In the
land patent of Thomas Stephens;
H. R. 4117. An act to remove the present
restriction relating to the granting of priv-
ileges within Kings Canyon National Park
in order that privileges hereafter granted
may be consistent with those granted in
other areas of the national-park system, and
for other purposes;
H. R. 5157. An act for the relief of the legal
guardian of Anthony Albanese, a minor;
H. R. 5282. An act to amend section 3 of
the Organic Act of Puerto Rico;
H. R. 6657. An act for the relief of Georges
Jules Louis Sauvage;
H. R. 6850. An act for the. relief of Lt. Col.
F. A. Ferguson;
H. R. 6959. An act authorizing the Sec-
retary of the Interior to issue a patent in fee
to William Watt;
H. R. 6960. An act authorizing the Secre-
tary of the Interior to issue a patent in fee
to James Wilbur Watt;
H. R. 6961. An act authorizing the Secre-
tary of the Interior to issue a patent in fee
to Mary E. White Watt;
H. R. 6963. An act authorizing the Secre-
tary of the Interior to issue a patent in fee
to Guy L. Heckenlively;
H. R. 6964. An act authorizing the Secre-
tary of the Interior to issue a patent in fee
to Josephine Stevens Goering;
H. R. 7043. An act to provide for the grant-
ing of an easement for a public road or pub-
lic toll road through the wildlife refuge lo-
cated in Princess Anne County, Va.;
H. R. 7192. An act to provide benefits fQr
the widows of certain persons who were re-
tired or are eligible for retirement under sec-
tion 6 of the act entitled "An act to authorize
aids to navigation and for other works in
the Lighthouse Service, and for other pur-
poses," approved June 20, 1918, as amended;
H. R. 7253. An act for the relief of Charles
Wilson Roland and Mirtie L. Roland;
H. R. 7293. An act authorizing the Secre-
tary of the Interior to issue a patent in fee
to Charlotte Geisdorff Kibby;
H. R. 7294. An act authorizing the Secre-
tary of the Interior to issue a patent in fee
to Rebecca Collins Ross;
H. R. 7431. An   act  for  expenditure    of
funds for cooperating with the public school
board at Walker, Minn., for the extension
of public-school facilities to be available to
all Indian children in the district, and for
other purposes;
H. R. 7540. An act for the relief of Louise
Peters Lewis;
H. R. 7773. An act to authorize the sale of
certain allotted land on the Pine Ridge In-
dian Reservation, S. Dak.;
H. R. 7869. An act to provide for the fur-
nishing of quarters at Newnan, Ga., for the
United States District Court for the North-
ern District of Georgia;
H. R. 7887. An act granting the consent
and approval of Congress to an amendment
to the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Com-
pact, and repealing the limitation on the life
of such compact;
H. R. 8144. An act to authorize the sale of
a small tract of land at Great Falls, Mont.;
H. R. 8450. An act for the relief of Ralef
Neahem, Iffef Neahem, and Ihsen Neahem;
H. R. 8597. An act to permit national banks
to give security in the form required by
State law for deposits of funds by local pub-
lic agencies and officers;
H. R. 8767. An act to authorize the exclu-
sion from the mails of all obscene, lewd,
lascivious, indecent, filthy, or vile articles,
matters, things, devices, or substances, and
for other purposes;

H. R. 8792. An act to amend the statute
relating to certificates of trade-mark regis-
trations;
H. R. 8845. An act to provide for the con-
veyance of a tract of land in Kennebec
County, Maine, to the town of Chelsea;
H.R. 8923. An act to provide improved
procedures with respect to the financial con-
trol of the Post Office Department, and for
other purposes;
H. R. 8944. An act authorizing the Ogdens-
burg Bridge Authority, Its successors and
assigns; to construct, maintain, and operate
a bridge across the St. Lawrence River at or
near the city of Ogdensburg, N. Y.;
H. R. 9074. An act to amend chapter 61
(relating to lotteries) of title 18, United
States Code, to make clear that such chap-
ter does not apply to nonprofit contests
wherein prizes are awarded for the species,
size, weight, or quality of fish caught by the
contestant;
H. R. 9120. An act to amend section 322
(b) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code;
H. J. Res. 453. Joint resolution authorizing
the President to invite the States of the
Union and foreign countries to participate
In the First United States International
Trade Fair, to be held at Chicago, Ill., Au-
gust 7 through 20, 1950;
H. J. Res. 489. Joint resolution to permit
articles imported from foreign countries for
the purpose of exhibition at the Mid-Century
International Exposition, Inc., New Orleans,
La., to be admitted without payment of
tariff, and for other purposes;
H. J. Res. 496. Joint resolution to permit
articles imported from foreign countries for
the purpose of exhibition at the Interna-
tional Food Exposition, Inc., Chicago, Ill., to
be admitted without payment of tariff, and
for other purposes; and
H. J. Res. 501. Joint resolution to author-
ize the procurement of an oil portrait and a
marble bust of the late Chief Justice Harlan
F. Stone.
The SPEAKER announced his signa-
ture to an enrolled bill of the Senate of
the following title:
S. 3644. An act to amend the War Claims
Act of 1948, as amended.
BILLS PRESENTED TO THE PRESIDENT
Mrs. NORTON, from the Committee
on House Administration, reported that
that committee did on this day present
to the President, for his approval, bills
of the House of the following titles:
H. R. 1161. An act to provide for the con-
version of national banking associations intp
and their merger or consolidation with State
banks, and for other purposes; and
H. R. 4604. An act to authorize the admis-
sion into the United States of certain aliens
possessing special skills, namely, Teodor Egle,
Karlis Fogelis, Vasily Kils, and Aleksanders
Zelmenis.
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST STEVE NELSON
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Speaker, by direc-
tion of the Committee on Un-American
Activities, I submit a privileged report
(Rept. No. 2848).
The SPEAKER. The Clerk will read
the report.
The Clerk read as follows:
REPORT CITING STEVE NELSON
The Committee on Un-American Activi-
ties, as created and authorized by the House
of Representatives through the enactment of
Public Law 601, section 121, subsection Q (2),
of the Seventy-ninth Congress, and under
jouse Resolution 5 of the Eighty-first Con-
gress, caused to be issued a subpena to Steve
Nelson. The said subpena directed Steve
Nelson to be and appear before said Coin-

mittee on Un-American Activities on April
26, 1949, at the hour of 10:30 a. in., then and
there to testify touching matters of inquiry
committed to said committee, and not to de-
part without leave of said committee. The
subpena served upon said Steve Nelson is set
forth in words and figures, as follows:
"By authority of the House of Represent-
atives of the Congress of the United States
of America, to C. E. Owens: You are hereby
commanded to summon Steve Nelson, to be
and appear before the Committee on Un-
American Activities of the House of Repre-
sentatives of the United States, of which Hon.
JOHN S. WOOD is chairman, in their chamber
in the city of Washington, room 226, Old
House Office Building, on April 26, 1949, at
the hour of 10:30 a. in., then and there to
testify touching matters of inquiry com-
mitted to said committee; and he is not to
depart without leave of said committee.
"Herein fail not, and make return of this
summons.
"Witness my hand and the seal of the
House of Representatives of the United
States, at the city of Washington, this 22d
day of March 1949.
"JOHN S. WOOD,
"Chairman.
"Attest:
"[sEAL]           "RALPH R. ROBERTS,
"Clerk, United States House of Rep-
resentatives."
The said subpena was duly served as ap-
pears by the return made thereon by C. E.
Owens, investigator of the Committee on Un-
American Activities, House of Representa-
tives, who was duly authorized to serve the
said subpena. The return of the service by
the said C. E. Owens, being endorsed thereon,
Is set forth in words and figures as follows:
"Subpena for Steve Nelson before the Com-
mittee on Un-American Activities. Served
the within-named individual in the offices of
the Communist Party of Weston, Pa., 426
Bakewell Building, Pittsburgh, Pa., March
24, 1949.
"C. E. OWENS,
"Investigator."
On May 2, 1949, a telegram was sent to Mr.
Steve Nelson, which is set forth herein in
words and figures, as follows:
WASHINGTON, D. C., May 2, 1949.
Mr. STEVE NELSON,
Room 426, Bakewell Building,
417 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.:
You are hereby directed to appear before
the House Committee on Un-American Ac-
tivities on May 25, 1949, 10:30 a. In., instead
of May 11, 1949, as previously directed.
JOHN S. WOOD,
Chairman.
On May 23, 1949, a telegram was sent to
Mr. Steve Nelson, which is set forth in words
and figures, as follows:
WASHINGTON, D. C., May 23, 1949.
Mr. STEVE NELSON,
Room 426, Bakewell Building,
417 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.:
With reference to the subpena served upon
you on March 24, 1949, and our telegram of
May 2, 1949, calling for your appearance on
May 25, 1949, you are advised that your ap-
.pearance before the Committee on Un-Amer-
ican Activities has been postponed until June
8, 1949, at 10:30 a. m.
JOHN S. WOOD,
Chairman.
The said Steve Nelson, pursuant to said
subpena, and in compliance therewith, ap-
peared before the said committee to give such
testimony as required under and by virtue of
Public Law 601, section 121, subsection Q (2),
of the Seventy-ninth Congress and under
House Resolution 5 of the Eighty-first Con-
gress. The said Steve Nelson, having ap-
peared as a witness and having been asked
questions, namely:

1950

12249



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0806.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

AUGUST 10

"Did he [Josef Fleischinger] have a son,
Josef Fleischinger, Jr., a cousin of yours?
"Do you know a person by the name of
Josef Fleischinger, Jr.?
"As a matter of fact, you entered the United
States illegally under this passport, did you
not?
"Did you enter the United States posing as
Josef Fleischinger under this passport?
"I hand you a photostatic copy of a por-
tion of the October 27, 1934, issue of the Daily
Worker, in which appears an article, Old
Parties Push Fake Job Slogans in Penn Elec-
tions, by Steve Nelson. I ask if that was a
contribution to the Daily Worker made by
you?
"Mr. Nelson, I hand you a photostatic copy
of the March 1934 issue of Party Organizer,
a publication of the Communist Party, which
carries an article entitled 'How the Unem-
ployment Councils Were Built in Lacka-
wanna County,' by Steve Nelson, in which
unemployment councils and party units are
discussed, and an appeal is made to the
unemployed, small-home owners, and single
young workzers. Will you examine this article
and state whether or not you made that con-
tribution to that magazine?
"Were you a candidate for the legislature,
as stated under the photograph?
"I hand you another issue of the Daily
Worker, bearing date of November 3, 1936,
which contains the national list of the Com-
munist Party candidates, and under the
heading 'Luocrne County, Seventh Legisla-
tive District' appears your name, Steve Nel-
son.   Will you    examine that and      state
whether or not you were a candidate for
office at that time?
"Were you section organizer of the Com-
munist Party in that locality at that time?
"And I will ask you, Mr. Witnoss, to ex-
amine Nelson exhibit 9 and state whether or
not that was a passport application made by
you on the date indicated thereon?
"This application further shows that a
passport was issued August 14, 1931. Did you
receive the passpcrt?
"W ;e you in Moscow?
"Did you attend the Lenin Institute?
"Did you leave the United States and go to
France, and from France to Germany, and
from Germany to Russia?
"Did you receive legal passport to leave
this country when ycu went to Spain to be-
come cn;aged in the fighting there?
"Mr. Nelson, were you in the State of Cali-
fornia in March 1941?
"Were you the county organizer of Ala-
meda County, Calif., in March 1941?
"I will ask if you were in Oakland, Calif.
in Deember 1042?
"Were you on the national committee of
the Communist Party, representing the State
of California in the year 1044?
"Now, I would lite to ask you if, during that
period of time, 1941 through 1943, you were
acquainted with the Communist Party cell
alleged to have been in existence at the
radiation laboratory at Berkeley, Calif.?
"Did you know Bernadette Doyle in Cali-
fornia?
"Was she your secretary in the organize-
tion work of the Communist Party in Cali-
fornia?
"And did you meet at her home, or at the
place where she lived, with other persons, or'
any persons advocating Communist beliefs?
"Did you become acquainted in California
with Dr. Irving David Fox?
"Did you become acquainted with Dr. Jo-
seph Weinberg?
"Did you meet him at any time from the
beginning of 1941 to the end of 1943 at your
home?
"Do you know Dr. Giovanni Rossi Lo-
manitz?
"Did you visit the home of Dr. Weinberg
on August 17, 1943, at 2427 Blake Street,
Berkeley, Calif.?
"Do you recall, Mr. Nelson. a conference
held in New York City at Hotel Lincoln on

June 23, 1947, which meeting had to do with
the American Slav Congress and the Croatian
Fraternal Union?
"Did you, on that occasion, meet Tom
Babin?
"Do you know Mr. Paul Crouch?
"Are you a Communist?
"Are you familiar with the policies and
program of the Communist Party of the
United States?"
which questions were pertinent to the sub-
ject under inquiry, refused to answer such
questions; and as a result of the said Steve
Nelson's refusal to answer the aforesaid
questions, your committee was prevented
from receiving testimony and information
concerning a matter committed to said com-
mittee in accordance with the terms of the
subpena served upon the said Steve Nelson.
The record of the proceedings before the
committee on June 8, 1949, during which
said Steve Nelson refused to answer the
aforesaid questions pertinent to the subject
under inquiry, is set forth in fact as follows:
"A subcommittee of the Committee on Un-
American Activities met pursuant to call at
11:25 a. m. in room 226, Old House Office
Building, Hon. John McSweeney presiding.
"Committee members present: Represent-
atives John McSweeney (presiding), Burr P.
Harrison, Richard M. Nixon, and Francis
Case.
"Mr. McSWEENEY. The chairman has des-
ignated me to preside over the subcommit-
tee's hearing this morning.
"Let the record show that this is a sub-
committee appointed by the chairman, con-
stituted of Mr. HARRISON, Mr. NIxoN, Mr.
CASE, and JOHN MCWEENEY, who has been
designated to preside.
"Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to call as the
first witness Mr. Steve Nelson.
"Mr. MICEWEENEY. Will you rise and raise
your right hand. You solemnly swear to tell
the cornmittoe tle whole truth and nothing
but the truth, so help you God?
"Mr. NELSON. I do.
"Mr. TAVENNER. Is Josef Fleischinger your
uncle?
"Mr. NELSON. I will take the same stand on
that question, Mr. Chairman. I refuse to
answer that on the ground it may tend to
incriminate me.
"Mr. TAVENNEn. Let me ask you this ques-
tion. In what manner could the acknowl-
edgement that Josef Fleischinger is your
uncle tend to incriminate you?
"Mr. BLocH. I don't know what my rights
are here. I know they are severely limited;
they have been in the past. I don't know
iT the committee would like to hear an ob-
jection in any legal form. If I am allowed
to record the objections, I would like to
state for the record that the question itself
calls for the divulgence of information that
might be incriminatory in character. There-
fore, the question is improper and I object
to it.
"Mr. TAVENNEE. In reply to counsel, I desire
to state that if there is any indication from
evidence that is presented to this committee
that such should be the case, he would be
within his rights in claiming immunity.
"Mr. BLOCH. Furnishing you evidence, or a
scintilla of evidence, to indicate the basis
of the witness' refusal to answer on the
ground it might tend to incriminate him
would, in and of itself, destroy the privilege,
because it might furnish a link, or a clue, or
evidence itself, that might reveal informa-
tion of an incriminatory character.
"Mr. TAVENNER. In the absence of or re-
fusal of the witness to give any evidence to
this committee wherein the divulgence of
that information might be incriminating, I
think he should be compelled to answer the
question.
"Mr. BLOCH. I wonder if the committee
would give me a moment to discuss with

the witness his constitutional rights and
clarify in my own mind something?
"Mr. MCSWEENEY. Yes.
"(Witness confers with his counsel.)
"Mr. BLOCH. If the committee pleases, the
witness would like to clarify his refusal by a
sketchy summary statement which will sug-
gest, at any rate, to the committee his basis
for refusing to answer without destroying
the privilege.
"Mr. MCSWEENEY. Mr. Nelson, proceed.
"Mr. NELSON. In the first place, I under-
stand the fifth amendment to mean that you
have no right to press me to interpret or to
give you my reasons for not answering the
question. Secondly, this committee knows
that I am a Communist, and if I should ad-
mit that I know certain people, those people
would be subject persecution, and I will not
cooperate with the committee on that score.
"Mr. NIXoN. Mr. Chairman-
"Mr. NELSON. And of course because it
would incriminate me.
"Mr. N~xoN. Mr. Chairman, the reasons the
witness has given do not bear on the matter
of self-incrimination. The fact that it is
going to embarass somebody else who hap-
pens to be a relative certainly does not bear
on the question of self-incrimination. I
think the understanding should be reached
at the present time that if the witness is
using self-incrimination simply to show his
contempt for the committee, that the com-
mittee should take proper action.
"Mr. BLOCH. The witness did not confine
his refusal to the fact it may involve other
people in persecutions, as he termed it, but
he also assigned the reason that he himself
would be incriminated. I think the record
bears that out very clearly. He might have
many reasons for refusing to answer, but I
submit that if one of those reasons involves
his right against self-incrimination, he re-
fusal should be upheld.
"Mr. HpAReisoN. Might I ask what counsel
suggests?
"Mr. TAVENNER. I would like the witness to
comply with what I conceive the law to be
in such matters, that if he has any reasons
or can give this committee any information
that could lead this committee to believe
that his reply would be of an incriminatory
nature, then he should not be required to
answer the question; otherwise, he should
be required to answer. And I want him to
have every opportunity to present to this
committee some information that would per-
mit this committee to come to some conclu-
sion, because I deem it to be the right and
privilege of this committee to determine
whether or not the question should be
answered.
"Mr. CASE. Mr. Chairman-
"Mr. BLoCH. If the committee pleases-
"Mr. McSwEENEY. Mr. Case.
"Mr. CASE. Did the witness complete his
statement? He started to say for the further
reason that it would tend to incriminate
himself. Did that complete your statement?
"Mr. NELSON. Yes.
"Mr BLOCH. If I might be heard for 2 sec-
onds on this question, and I think it is a
question of law more than anything else, the
courts have held repeatedly-and this is
within the last few years, and if you care for
the citations I can give them to you-that
when an avowed Communist is questioned
about his associations, affiliations, and activ-
ities in connection with his Communist be-
liefs, he has the absolute right to rely upon
the fifth amendment, because the Govern-
ment-incidentally, particularly this com-
mittee-has made claims about the Com-
munist   movement, charging       them   with
engaging in activities of a criminial char-
acter.
"I don't have to enumerate for you the
various statutes under which it has claimed
that certain members of the Communist
Party have committed crimes against the
United States. It is apparent we have a

12250



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0807.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

crime by conspiracy, and when you ask a
Communist if he knows somebody or has seen
somebody or engaged in any activity with
somebody, it might tend to put him in the
legal noose, I might say, for prosecution by
the United States.
"The admission of a relationship may be
very damaging. The witness, within the re-
cesses of his mind, knows what has hap-
pened in the past, and I don't believe any-
body, under our Constitution, has a right to
inquire into those thoughts of his which re-
fresh his recollection as to certain incidents
of the past, as to whether he has or has not
been engaged in conduct that might be con-
ceived as improper.
"I might say this: I don't want to waive
any rights as to the bona fideness of the ques-
tion or as to the materiality. I don't know
what this committee Is after from this wit-
ness.
"Mr. MCSWEENEY. You have a right to con-
sult with your client any time during the
questioning, and advise your client.
"Mr. BLOCH. Thank you.
"Mr. HARRISON. What is counsel's recom-
mendation as to proceeding at this time?
"Mr. TAVENNER. I would suggest at this
time that if there is no evidence satisfactory
to the committee which would indicate any-
thing of an incriminatory character in the
answer, that the witness should be required
to answer the question.
"Mr. HARRISON. I move the witness be di-
rected to answer the question.
"Mr. NixoN. I second the motion.
"Mr. MCSWEENEY. All those in favor of the
motion as made and seconded will signify by
saying "aye"; those opposed, "no."
"(The motion was unanimously carried.)
"Mr. MCSWEENEY. It is the concensus of
the committee that you be directed to an-
swer the question.
"Mr. TAVENNER. Will the reporter read the
question.
"(The pending question was read by the
reporter, as follows:)
"Is Josef Fleischinger your uncle?
"(Witness confers with his counsel.)
"Mr. NELSON. Josef Fleischinger was my
uncle. He is dead.
"Mr. TAVENNEE. Did he come to the United
States?
"Mr. NELSON. Yes.
"Mr. TAVENNER. When did he die?
"'Mr. NELSON. In the last year.
"Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Nelson, did he have a
son, Joseph Fleischinger, Jr., a cousin of
yours?
"(Witness confers with his counsel.)
"Mr. NELSON. I refuse to answer that on
the grounds that it will tend to incriminate
me.
"Mr. TAVENNER. Let me repeat the ques-
tion. I am not certain that it was under-
stood. Is Josef Fleischinger, Jr., a cousin of
yours?
"Mr. NELSON. I gave you that answer and
I stand on those grounds.
"Mr. HARRISON. YOU mean you have an-
swered the question?
"Mr. NELSON. Yes. I said I refused to an-
swer it on the grounds it may tend to In-
criminate me.
"Mr. HARRISON. IS that your full state-
ment?
"Mr. NELSON. That is my full statement.
"Mr. HARRISON. Mr. Chairman, I move that
the witness be instructed to answer the ques-
tion.
"Mr. MCSWEENEY. You acknowledged your
relation to one person. We are asking your
relation to another.
"(Witness confers with his counsel.)
"Mr. NELSON. I understand the implica-
tions of what you are driving at, and I take
the position that this committee is trying to
compel me to testify against myself, and I
refuse to do so on the grounds that the Con.
stitution protects me.

"Mr. CASE. Mr. Chairman, is he contend-
ing that he would be testifying against him-
self, or tending to incriminate himself, if
he answers a question of fact as to whether
a certain person is his cousin?
"Mr. BLOCH. May I answer that?
"Mr. MC'WEENEY. YOU can't testify.
"Mr. BLOCH. I don't want to testify. I
want to argue it as a proposition of law, that
is all.
"Mr. McSwEENuY. You can consult with
your client.
"Mr. CASE. I would like to ask this ques-
tion of Mr. Nelson: Do you know a person
by the name of Josef Fleischinger, Jr.?
"Mr. NELSON. I have answered that ques-
tion, sir, the way I think it ought to be
answered.
"Mr. CASE. You haven't answered that
question.
"Mr. NELSON. That is the same question.
"Mr. HARRISON. I understand you refuse to
answer the question?
"Mr. NELSON. I refuse to answer it on the
grounds it may tend to incriminate me.
"Mr. HARRISON. And that is the full answer
you desire to make?
"Mr. NELSON. Yes.
"Mr. BLOCH. I assume that goes to both
questions. The questions are interrelated.
"Mr. HARRISON. Mr. Chairman, I move the
witness be directed to answer.
"Mr. NixoN. I second the motion.
"Mr. McSwEENEY. All those in favor of the
motion as made and seconded will signify by
saying 'Ayes'; those opposed, 'No.'
"(The motion was unanimously carried.)
"Mr. McSwEENEY. So ordered. The com-
mittee directs you to answer the question.
"(Witness confers with his counsel.)
"Mr. NELSON. Mr. Chairman, I refuse to
answer that question      upon   the further
grounds that because of the fact I am a well-
known Communist it may tend to cause
harm to this person that you are bringing
forward here, and I refuse to do that, as well
as the fact it is going to do harm to me.
This committee is trying to do something it
has no right to do.
"Mr. HARRISON. You     have no    right to
assume that.
"Mr. BLOCH. Will you pardon me for 1 sec-
ond while I confer with the witness?
"Mr. MCSWEENEY. Yes.
"(Conference between the witness and his
counsel.)
"Mr. NIxON. While counsel is conferring
with the witness .1 want to make a statement
for the record again that the witness' con-
tention that the testimony he would give
might be harmful to his relatives or to him
has no standing before this committee, as the
witness and his counsel both well know.
"Mr. NELSON. Mr. Chairman, I have made
two points already of the reasons I am refus-
ing to answer. The additional reason is that
if I would answer your question whether I
had relations with this person it would defi-
nitely tend to incriminate me, and therefore
I refuse to do so.
*        *        S        S        *
"Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic
copy of a passport. Will you identify that as
the passport under which you traveled?
"Mr. NELSON. I would say it looks like
the one.
*        S        S        *        S
"Mr. TAVENNER. As a matter of fact, you
entered the United States illegally under this
passport, did you not?
"Mr. NELSON. I refuse to answer that.
"Mr. TAVENNER. On what ground?
"Mr. NELSON. Because it may tend to in-
criminate me.
"Mr. TAVENNER. The offense, if one existed,
is barred by the statute of limitations, this
having occurred in 1920; and the fifth
amendment does not, in my judgment, afford
immunity where you cannot be prosecuted
because of the alleged offense being barred

by the statute of limitations; so I again ask
you to answer the question.
"(Witness confers with his counsel.)
"Mr. NELSON. What is the question again?
"Mr. TAVENNER. Read the question.
"The question referred to was read, as
follows:
"As a matter of fact, you entered the
United States illegally under this passport,
did you not?
"Mr. NELSON. Mr. Chairman, I don't admit
that I came into the United States illegally.
"Mr. MCSWEENEY. You admit this to be
your passport?
"Mr. NELSON. That is right.
"Mr. TAVENNER. There appears on the last
page of this passport the following certifi-
cation:
" 'AMERIcAN LEGATION,
"'Belgrade, April 15, 1920.
"'I hereby certify that Mr. Josef Fleisch-
inger, the holder of this passport, is accom-
panied by his wife Mary and minor children,
Josef, Elsie, and Mary.'
"Did you not enter the United States posing
as Josef Fleischinger under this passport?
"(Witness confers with his counsel.)
"Mr. NELSON. I didn't fill that thing out.
At the time I was 16 years old or so, and I
can't say. Therefore I refuse to answer the
question. It might tend to incriminate me
if I answered I came in illegally, or perhaps if
you put the interpretation on it that I pre-
pared the thing.
"Mr. TAVENNER. YOU     were arrested    for
deportation, were you not, because of illegal
entry?
"Mr. NsLsoN. That is right.
"Mr. TAVENNER. When was that?
"Mr NELSON. I can't recall. I think it was
in 1921.
"Mr. TAVENNER. Was that about June 22,
1922, you think?
"Mr. NESsON. I can't be sure about that
date.
"Mr. TAVENNER. Was a hearing afforded you
on October 17, 1922, in Philadelphia, as a re-
sult of which you were afforded an oppor-
tunity to legalize your residence in this
country?
"Mr. NELSON. That is right, but I am not
sure about the date.
"Mr. TAVENNER. And is it not also true that
on the 14th of November 1922, the Secretary
of State waived the passport requirements
on behalf of yourself, your mother Mary,
and your two sisters?
"Mr. NELSON. I don't know what the tech-
nical or legal procedure was, but my under-
standing was that the case was dropped, and
that ended the matter so far as I know.
*        *       *        *        *
"Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you a photostatic
copy of a portion of the issue of November
10, 1937, of the Daily Worker. The Daily
Worker is an official publication of the Com-
munist Party, is it not?
"(Witness confers with his counsel.)
"Mr. NELsoN. It is not an official organ of
the Communist Party now.
"Mr. TAVENNER. In 1937 it was an official
publication of that party, was it not?
"Mr. NELSON. I believe it was then.
"Mr. TAVENNER. I hand you this article, en-
titled 'Steve Nelson an Exemplary Political
Commissar in the International Brigade,' by
Joseph North, and ask you to examine it.
"(Witness examines document and confers
with his counsel.)
"Mr. NELSON. I didn't have a chance to
read it carefully. It appears to be an article
from the Daily Worker, but I can't say that
all the facts are correct, because the story
was cabled from Valencia, Spain. At that
time I was in a hospital wounded, and I
don't recall reading the story, that is, the
article, as it appeared in the Daily Worker,
because I wasn't here at the time.
"Mr. TAVENNER. You knew Joseph North
in Spain, did you not?

1950

12251



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0808.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

AUGUST 10

"Mr. NELSON. Yes, I met him. He was a
correspondent for the Daily Worker.
"Mr. TAVENNER. This article describes your
activity to some extent in the International
Brigade?
"Mr. NELSON. Yes, I gather that from
glancing at it.
"Mr. TAVENNER. In the course of this ar-
ticle it is stated: 'The working people of the
Soviet Union were passing through a bitter
period and Steve joined the Friends of Soviet
Russia. On the first anniversary of Lenin's
death, he joined the C. P. at the memorial
meeting in Philadelphia.' Is that correct?
"Mr. NELSON. That is what the story says,
but the facts are not so.
