to a corporation chartered by the State whose constitution I have
sworn to defend. This constitution itself recognizes the evil which
it legalized, and ordained that the present lottery, and all others that
might be in its borders, should at a stated time meet their final doom,
and this constitution the lottery company by unhallowed means is and
has been using every effort to subvert.
Now, Mr. Speaker, a few brief words about the objections urged
against this bill. It is said that under it the Government of the United
States goes still further toward centralization, thatit infringes upon cer-
tain rights belonging to the States. If I felt this to be true, in how-
ever slight a degree, I should vote against this bill. But, Mr. Speaker,
this whole business-the regulation of the mails-is clearly within our
province. The passage of this bill exercises to a full extent the legiti-
mate powers of Congress, but does not usurp one lot or one whit of
power beyond what belongs to it. Congress has the right to say what
shall be carried by mail and what shall not. It has frequently said
what shall not. It has forbidden the use of the mails for the sending of
obscene books and pictures, and no one has questioned its right to do so.
It has said vegetables or fruits shall not go in the mails, that poisons or
glass, that animals dead or alive, "except queen bees" properly
secured, that packages beyond a certain weight, shall not be transported
in that manner. It has exercised the right to limit or forbid the use
of the mails on a number of occasions. The highest court in the land
has ruled upon this point when Justice Field said in delivering the
opinion of the court in the case of Exparte Jackson (96 United States
Supreme Court Reports):
The power possessed by Congress embraces the regulation of the entire postal
system of the country. The right to designate what shall be carried neces-
sarily involves the right to determine what shall be excluded.
It is said also that this is a blow at the freedom of the press, which,
with freedom of speech, Congress is forbidden by the first amendment
to the Constitution to make any abridgment of.
Sir, if this is a blow against the freedom of the press it is such a blow
as the State of New York has struck where lottery advertisements are
forbidden in the newspapers. It is such a blow as other States in this
Union have struck who have done likewise, but I have never yet heard
it has there been considered a blow at the freedom of the press. The
freedom of the press, as I understand it, consists in the right of the edi-
tors of the newspapers to freely express their views on public questions
without let or hinderance by those in authority. It means to forbid
that censorship of the press once so prevalent in European countries
and still common in those countries, but this matter of advertisements
seems to me to be a different affair. I hold in my hand as good a pa-
per, as well supplied with news, as interesting a paper to read, perhaps,
as any in the United States, a paper which is published in a State where
lottery advertisements are forbidden and where no newspaper dares to
print one, and it seems to thrive and prosper and makes no complaint
that its rights have been interfered with.
But I have heard it charged that this bill goes into the domain of

8712



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0637.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

the police power of the States; that when the right was given to Con-
gress by the States to establish post-offices and post-roads it was never
dreamt that this power would be extended to regulate the morals of
the people.
But is this the only reason-that lotteries are immoral-why this
bill receives its support? Are there not many-other reasons?
Some of you gentlemen may support this bill solely on the ground
of the suppression of immorality. Others may support the bill because
the lotteries take money from their States and leave so little in return.
I may support this bill, among many reasons, chiefly because a lottery
corporation, intrenched behind a new lease of life, might have such
power in a State-as almost to supersede the powers of the State itself,
and be able to dictate at its will or from its necessities who shall pos-
sess honors, emoluments, or liberty itself. Rid of one era of slavery, I
have no desire to see another.
Mr. Speaker, the members of this House have been so patient with
me and so generous in the repeated extensions of my time that for a
few moments only will I further trespass upon their patience. This
bill may be extreme, but it is constitutional. It infringes upon no
right the State or the citizen has under the Constitution. It provides
for the breaking of no seal, and any postmaster or postal employ6 who
does so, does so at his peril. The express companiescan still carry the
tickets and tempting circulars which the bill bars out of the mails,
but even this privilege may not last indefinitely.
My position in this matter, Mr. Speaker, is taken deliberately. I
shall vote for this bill as amended. [Applause.]
Mr. EVANS rose.
Mr. ROGERS. Mr. Speaker, I desire to have the amendment which
I offered pending when the time arrives for a vote, and I ask the gen-
tleman from Tennessee [Mr. EVANS] to let it be submitted so that it
may be pending.
Mr. DINGLEY. Mr. Speaker, let the amendment be read, so that
we may know what we are doing.
Mr. CRAIN. Mr. Speaker, I also want to offer an amendment, in
order to have it pending when the time comes to vote.
The SPEAKER pro temnpore. The Clerk will again report the amend-
ment of the gentleman from Arkansas.
The Clerk read as follows:
Add to section 3 the following words:
" But the Postmaster-General shall not be precluded from ascertaining the
existence of such agency in any other legal way."
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will read the amendment
of the gentleman from Texas [Mr. CRAIN].
The Clerk read as follows :
In line 25, of section 3, strike out the word "acknowledgment" and insert
"prinafacie evidence."
Mr. BURTON. That amendment has been already adopted.
The SPEAKERpro tempore. A similar amendment which was adopted
related to section 2.
Mr.BURTON. I presume, then,this amendment is designed to make
the third section correspond with the second. I suppose there can be
no objection.
Mr. CRAIN. The Clerk has not read theamendment on which I de-
sire the action of the House. The amendment just read was adopted,
as I understand, by unanimous consent.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair is informed that the amend-
ment was not adopted.
Mr. CRAIN. Then I ask unanimous consent that it be adopted now.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection?
Mr. GROSVENOR. Let it be considered as pending; I can not
agree that it be adopted by unanimous consent.
The SPEAKER pro temporc. The gentleman from Ohio [Mr. GRos-
VENOR] objects.
Mr. CRAIN. If the gentleman from Ohio understood this matter
he would not object. The same amendment was adopted on motion
of the gentleman from Pennsylvania [Mr. BUCKALEW] to section two.
This amendment simply makes section three conform to that.
Mr. EVANS obtained the floor.
Mr. CRAIN. I would like to have the Clerk read my other amend-
ment, that it may be considered as pending.
Several MEMBERS. Regular order.
The SPEAKERpro tempore. The regular order is demanded. The
gentleman from Tennessee [ Mr. EVANS] will proceed.
Mr. EVANS. Mr. Speaker, the subject under consideration, House
bill No. 11569, reported favorably by the Committee on Post-Offices and
Post-Roads, being a substitute for House bills Nos. 177,241, 242. 3321,
and 8987, referred to that committee, on which I have the honor to
serve, is one that demands from the members of this body the most
careful and considerate attention.
The bill before us proposes to so amend sections 3894, 3929, and 4041,
Revised Statutes, as to prohibit the use of the mails for the purpose of
in any way distributing advertisements or advertising matter pertain-
ing to lotteries, gift enterprises, or schemes to obtain money or prop-
erty by games of chance; in fact, to prohibit the use of the mails fbr
the purpose of carrying on a correspondence with any lottery or any
lottery with the patrons thereof.

This bill seeks to suppress that species of gambling which is carried
on through the agency or instrumentality of lotteries. Sections 3894,
3929, and 4041 of the Revised Statutes refer only to "illegal" or
"fraudulent" lotteries. It is not my purpose to discuss the constitu-
tional questions involved, if there be any, but my confidence in the
wisdom of the Supreme Court is such that I am quite satisfied to allow
that body to deal with this question. I shall confine my remarks
briefly to existing facts. The Louisiana State Lottery claims that it is
not an "illegal" lottery, as it exists under the constitution and laws
of that State, and that it is not a "fraudulent" lottery or scheme de-
vised and intended to deceive and defraud the public for the purpose
of obtaining money under false pretenses, and so far the Government
has failed to successfully prosecute a case against this company, al-
though it is quite evident that Congress intended to confer upon the
Postmaster-General authority to stamp out and suppress all lotteries,
and each and every State, with the exception of Louisiana, has co-
operated with the Postmaster-General, and every State, aside from
Louisiana, has suppressed this class of gambling so far as possible within
its limits; and now comes up a demand, an appeal, that has been
ofttimes repeated, for protection by the National Government.
The States in their sovereign capacity have tried to protect themselves
and their citizens from this immoral monster by provisions in their re-
spective constitutions and by legislative enactment, but the United
States mails will not permit them to doso. The States prohibit by law
their own newspapers from advertising any lotteries or the drawings of
any lotteries. The States have, in every way possible, endeavored to
quarantine against this pestilence, and yet the United States persists in
disregarding the wishes of the States, as expressed in their respective
constitutions and laws, by delivering through its mails advertisements
for the sale of lottery tickets, into the States and into the homes of the
people, thereby corrupting the youth and swindling and robbing the
people.
The Louisiana lottery has twelve regular drawings each year, ten
monthlies and two known as semi-annual.
Each regular monthly drawing:
100,000 tickets, at $20 -------------------------- $2, 000, 000
3,134 prizes ---------------------------------1,054,800
Profit monthly -------------------------------945,200
Profits of ten regular drawings each year ---------------9,452,000
Each semi-annual drawing:
100,000 tickets, at $40 each ----------------------- 4,000,000
3,134 prizes --------------------------------- 2,109,600
Profit each semi-annual drawing ---------------- 1,890, 400
Profits yearly on semi-annual drawings ---------------- 3, 780, 800
Profit on ten monthly drawings ----------------------- 9,452,000
Profit on two semi-annual drawings -------------------  3, 780, 800
Total annual profits --------------------------- 13,232, 800
This is the estimated clear profit of the company annually, as the
daily drawings held are expected to, and undoubtedly do, pay all the
expenses of the company.
The daily drawings held each day at 4 p. m. are even more perni-
cious in their effects than the regular lottery drawings. The mode of
conducting these is, briefly, as follows:
Seventy-eight numbers, from 1 to 78, are placed in a wheel, each
number inclosed in a tube. Out of this number thirteen are drawn by
a blindfolded boy, and the numbers are entered on a blackboard in the
order in which drawn. The tickets for this drawing are sold at 25
cents each for one-fourth ticket, and the purchaser is permitted to se-
lect and have entered upon the ticket when purchased any three of the
numbers from 1 to 78. If the first three numbers drawn from the wheel
correspond with the three numbers on the ticket, and are drawn in
the order in which they appear on the ticket, a prize of $6,000 is paid
(something that has neveryet happened in the history of the company
and would not likely happen if conducted for the next hundred years).
If, however, of the thirteen numbers drawn out of the wheel three of
them happen to correspond with the three numbers on your ticket, a
prize of about $36 is given. By paying an extra 25 cents on a ticket
you can put what is called a "gig and saddle" on it, and then in the
event that two of the numbers on your ticket correspond with any two
of the thirteen numbers drawn from the wheel, a prize of $2.45 is paid.
There are sundry other ways of betting on this scheme, but these are
the most common because the most simple.
By a mathematical calculation It is found that the chance to win a
capital prize is one in 67,525, and when you win it you only get
$4,275.40 for $1, as against $15,000 for $1 in the monthly, with a
chance of 1 in 100,000.
The chance to win a prize of $4.25 is 1 in 1,237.
The chance to win $1.70 is as 1 to 19.
Take, for instance, the "washerwonian's gig "-4-11-44-the chance
that these three, or any other three numbers, will, in any order, be the

1890.

8713



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0638.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

AUGUST 16,

first three numbers out of the thirteen taken from the wheel. Five
days in the week is the continued product of the numbers 7S, 77, 76,
divided by 6, which is 76,076, so that 1 in 76,076 is the chance to win.
In other words, if one should play this gig every day for 253 years,
the mathematical chances are that it would come out once, and after
spending $76,076 one would, if it did come, receive the munificent
prize of $100,
If you bet that any particular number will be one of the thirteen
drawn, your chance to win is 1 in 6, and if you do win you are paid 4
for 1.
Compare these figures with those of the roulette table. Your chance
to win there is 1 in 31; if you do win you are paid 27 for 1. The pro-
fessional gambler, who is denounced by the law, indicted bygrandj uries,
and hunted by the police as a species of thief, is satisfied with a per-
centage in his favor of 12 per cent. This gigantic corporation turns its
wheel daily for the unnumbered multitude who may bet at its game.
The smallest percentage it permits itself to take is 22 per cent. On
the most of its game its percentage is from 33 to 41 per cent., and on
part of its game incalculable.
This is the real skin-game annex to the Louisiana State Lottery, and
poor servant girls, children, boot-blacks, draymen, hackmen, in fact
men of high and low degree by the thousands, patronize this scheme.
Agents are located at convenient places all over the city where their
tickets are sold and at which places prizes are paid on presentation of
winning tickets. One hundred and twenty agents, estimated average
receipts of each from $50 to $60 per day.
About $10,000 worth of postage-stamps and stamped envelopes are
purchased monthly by the lottery company. This represents 500,000
letters they mail monthly, or 6,000,000 annually, each one of which
is a violation of law.
In addition to this the lottery company secures cheap (especially
sporting) newspapers to publish their advertisements and send out
tons of them to all parts of the United States on pound rates as sam-
ple copies.
Very recently the Spirit of the South, a cheap local sporting paper
of limited circulation, sent out in one week 4,947 pounds of sample
copies, representing about 50,000 copies of the paper. On examination
it was found that the paper, in addition to the regular advertisement,
contained several columns of local advertisements of the lottery com-
pany. The postage paid upon this 2J tons of papers, representing 50,-
000 pieces of mail matter, is but $49.47.
To send a lottery circular through the mails under existing statutes
is unlawful, yet that circular in many cases is exactly the same as the
advertisements contained in the newspapers. To send through the
mails sealed circulars costs 2 cents per ounce. Newspapers and peri-
odicals from regular publishers cost but 1 cent per pound.
To have mailed 50,000 circulars instead of the 50,000 copies of the
Spirit of the South before alluded to, and which contained the same
matter, would have cost $1,000 for postage, instead of $49.47. It is
made not only lawful to publish the circulars in newspapers, but much
cheaper.
Encouraged by the success of the Louisiana lottery, foreign lottery
companies are now advertising in hundreds of the American papers and
are building up quite a business, and establishing agencies in all the
leading cities of this country.
I find advertised in the Washington daily papers the Louisiana State
Lottery, Grand Lottery of Juarez (Mexico), Lottery of Mexican Na-
tional Government, and I find there the name of that former distin-
guished soldier, diplomat, and statesman, John S. Mosby, as commis-
siouer of the Juarez lottery.
Your attention is invited to the fact that the great financial system
of this nation, through its agents, four national banks of New Orleans,
stands as sponsor or indorser of the Louisiana State Lottery.
I find nothing in the act creating the national-banking system, de-
fining the duties or prescribing the powers of the same, that authorizes
national banks, or in the course of business justifies them, to engage
in any such copartnerships.
I find, too, among the cards published in a New Orleans paper cer-
tain national banks (one in the Lone Star State, another in the new-
born State bearing the name of the Father of this Country) advertised
as among those drawing prizes in the Louisiana State Lottery, July
15, 1890.
Is it possible that members of this great national-banking system,
a financial system that is the pride of the nation, should lend their
names and credit to encourage and stimulate illegitimate schemes like
lotteries for obtaining money ?
Is it surprising that Canada has secured such a large number of our
bank presidents and cashiers? It becomes the nation's disgrace-its
accredited agents, national banks, the custodians of the people's sav-
ings, participating in a scheme for obtaining money that is recognized
by the intelligence of the world as illegitimate, illegal, fraudulent,
and the most disgraceful species of gambling.
A CARD.

ber, Class G, in the Louisiana State Lottery, which drew the second capital
prize of $100,000, on Tuesday, July 15, 1890, and that the amount was promptly
paid by a check on theNew OrleansNational Bank on presentation of theticket
at the office of the company.
A. .1. DRYSDALE,
Runner zew Orleans National Bank, Ncw Orleans, La.
A CARD.
650,000.]                                     NEW ORLEANS, July.23, 1890.
The undersigned certifies that he held for collection, for account of First Na-
tional Bank. Waco, Tex., one-twentieth of ticket No. 26747, single number,
Class G, in the Louisiana State Lottery, which drew the third capital prize of
$50,000, on Tuesday, July 15, 1890, and that the amount was promptly paid on
presentation of the ticket at the office of the company.
CHAS. SANTANA,
Nole Clerk Louisiana National Bank.
EXHIBIT SHOWING CONSTITUTIONAL AND STATUTORY PROVISIONS OF THE RE-
SPECTIVE STATES RELATING TO LOTTEuES, AGENCIES FOR SAME, AND SALE
OF TICKETS.
ALADADIA.
Constitutional provisions.
"The General Assembly shall have no power to authorize lotteries or gift en-
terprises for any purpose, and shall pass laws to prohibit the sale of lottery or
gift-enterprise tickets in any scheme in the nature of a lottery in this State; and
all acts or parts of acts heretofore passed by the General Assembly of this State
authorizing a lottery or lotteries, and all acts amendatory thereof or supple-
mental thereto, are hereby avoided." Adopted 1875. (Art. 4,sec. 26.)
Statutory provisions.
Any person who sets up or carries on a lottery, liable to a fine of not less than
$100 nor more than $2,000. (Rev.Stat., 1876, see. 4445.)
Person who sells or acts as agent for the sale of lottery tickets, liable to a fine
of not less than $1,000 nor more than $2,000. (Rev. Stat., 1876, sec. 4446.)
ARKANSAS.
Constitutional provision,
"The General Assembly shall not authorize any lottery, end shall prohibit the
sale of lottery tickets." (Art.5,sec. 41.)
Statutory provisions.
Any person keeping an office for the sale of lottery tickets, liable to a fine not
less than $50 nor more than $500, with costs of prosecution. (See. 1, Session Laws
of Arkansas, 1874-'75, p. 159.)
Any person selling lottery tickets, guilty of a misdemeanor and liable to a
fine of not less than $50, nor more than $510, and shall stand committed to jail
until costs ahd fine paid. (Sec. 2, session laws of Arkansas, 1874-'75, p. 159.)
CALIFORNIA. -
Constitutional provision.
"The Legislature shall have no power to authorize lotteries or gift enterprises
for any purpose, and shall pass laws to prohibit the sale in this State of lottery
or gift-enterprise tickets, or tickets in any scheme in the nature of a lottery."
(Art. 14, sec. 26. Adopted, 1879.)
Slatutory provisions.
Lottery defined. (Rev. Stat., 13, p. 319.)
Any person who sets up or draws a lottery, guilty of a misdemeanor. (Rev.
Stat., 1876, see. 1332.)
.Any person who sells or gives, or in any way transfers lottery tickets, guilty
ofa misdemeanor. (Rev'. Stat., 1876, sec. 13321.)
Any person aiding or assisting a lottery, either by printing, writing, adver-
tising, publishing, or otherwise, guilty of a ni isdemeanor. (Rev. Stat., 1876, sec.
13322.)
Any person who sets un or keeps any office or other place for the sale or reg-
istry of tickets, or who. by printing, writing, or otherwise, advertises or pub-
lishes the setting up or opening or running of any such offices, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Rev. Stat., see. 13323.)
Property offered for sale by means of lottery drawing forfeited. (Rev. Stat.,
see. 13325.
Issuing of lottery tickets a misdemeanor. (Re-. Stat.. see. 13324.)
Letting a building for lottery purposes a misdemeanor. (Rev. Stat., sec.
13326.)
COLORADO.
Constitulional provision.
"The General Assembly shall have no power to authorize lotteries or gift en-
terprises for any purpose, and shall pass laws to prohibit the sale of lottery or
gift-enterprise tickets In this State." (Art. 18, sec. 2.)
Statutory provisions.
Any person engaging in or promoting a lottery liable to a fine not less than
$100 or imprisonment in jail not less than thirty days. (Sec. 1, acts of 1881, p.
178.)
Any person who opens, carries on, or promotes lottery or other games of
chance liable to a penalty of not less than $100 or ifuprisonment not less than
sixty days. (See. 2, acts of 1881, p. 178.)
Any person advertising a lottery liable to a fine not exceeding $100 or im-
prisonment in jail not less than sixty days, or both. (Sec. 3,I1.)
Owner of nevspaper who publishes any advertisement of a lottery'liable toa
fine of not less than $1,000. (Sec.(?)-Id.)
Selling of tickets prohibited under penalty f fine not exceeding $100 or im-
prisonment not exceeding sixty days, or both.
CONNECTICUT.
Statutorj provisions.
Lotteries prohibited, and any person carrying on same liable to a fine of not less
than $20 nor more than $100, or imprisonment not more than one year or less
than sixty days. (See. 4, Rev. Stat., 1875, p. 616.)
Sale of lottery tickets prohibited under a penalty of not more than $300 nor less
than $50, or imprisonment not less than three months nor more than one year.
(See. 5, Id.)
Persons drawing a lottery liable to a fine of not more than $300 or imprison-
ment not more than ninety days, or both.
DELAWARE.
Statutory provision.
All lotteries save those authorized by State authority prohibited. (Rev. Stat.
1874,254,255.)

$100,000.]                                  NEW ORLEANS, July 23,1890.
The undersigned certifies that he held for collection, for account of Pacific                    Conslitutional provision.
National Bank, Tacoma, Wash., one-twentieth of ticket No. 32794, single num-  "Lotteries are hereby prohibited in this State." (Art.4,Sec.20.)

8714



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0639.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

tatutory provisions.
WVho.ver advertises any lottery ticket or any share in such ticket for sale by
himself or another person, etc..shall for each offense be punished by fine not
exceeding S100. (See. 4, chap. 80, HcLean's Digest, p. 427.)
Persons setting up lottery punishable by file not exceeding $2,000. (See. 1,
McLean's Digest, p. 41)
Persons leasing building for lottery purposes punishable by fine not exceed-
ing 82,C00. (See.2, Id.)
Sale of lottery tickets prohibited under a penalty of not exceeding 02,000. (See.
2, Id.)
GEORGIA.
Constitutional provision.
All lotteries and the sale of lottery tickets are hereby prohibited, and this pro-
hibition shall be enforced by penal laws. (Art. I, see. 2, par. 14.)
Statutory provisions.
Sale of lottery tickets prohibited under a penalty of not less than $100 nor more
than S500; second offense not exceeding $1,000 or imprisonment in county jail
six months, or both. (Rev. Stat., 1882, sec. 4549.)
Carrying on of lottery prohibited. (Rev. Stat., 1882, sec. 45t9.)
Turning of lottery wheel prohibited. (Rev. Stat., 4519.)
Violation two preceding sections punished by fine not less than $500 nor more
than 01,000, or imprisonment not more than one year. (Rev. Stat., 4549, Id.)
IDAIIO.
(Conslitutional provisions.)
ILLIL90IS.I
Constitutional provisions.
"The General Assembly shall have no power to authorize lotteries or gift
enterprises for any purpose, and shall pass laws to prohibit the sale of lottery
or gift-enterprise tickets in this State." (Art. 3, sec. 27.)
Slatulory provisions.
Persons setting up or disposing of property by means of a lottery, liable to a
fine of not more than $2,000. (See. 180, Rev. Stat., 1880. p. 383.)
Person permitting a lottery to be carried on on his premises, liable to fine
not exceeding $2,000. (See.181, Id.)
Sale of lottery tickets prohibited, under penalty of not exceeding $2,030.
(See. 182, Id.)
Lottery advertisement'prohibited, under penalty not exceedhig $100. (Sec.
183, I.)
Second offense, fine of $103 and imprisonment not exceeding one year. (See.
184, id.)
All property drawn or offered as prize in lottery forfeited to State. (See.
185, Id.)
INDIANA.
Constltutional provision.
"Nn lottery shall be authorized nor shall the sale of lottery tickets be al-
lowed." (Art. 15, sec. 8.)
Statutory provisions.
Persons selling lottery tickets or acting as agent for lottery, subject to fine of
not more than $500 nor less than $10. (See. 2077, Rev. Stat., 1881.)
"Wohoever writes, prints, advertises, or publishes in any way an account of
any lottery," etc., punished by line not exceeding $500 nor less than $10.
IOWA.
Constilutional provision.
"No lottery shall be authorized by this State, nor shall the sale of lottery
tickets be allowed." (Art. 3, sec. 28.)
Statutorp provision.
Selling or advertising forsale lottery tickets punishable by imprisonment not
exceeding thirty days or fine not exceeding $t00, or both. (McClain's Stat.,
see. 4043.)
KANSAS.
Constitutional prevision.
"Lotteries and the sale of lottery tickets are forever prohibited." (Art. 15,
see. 3.)
This State has no statute.
KENTUC K Y.
Statutory provisions.
Any person setting up, promoting, or carrying on lottery liable to a fine of
from $500 to $10,000. (Gen. Stat., chap. 29, see. 1.)
Artists may dispose of their pictures by chance or lot. (See. 2, Id.)
Persons printing or vending lottery tickets subject to fine of from $100 to
el.000. (See. 3, Id.)
Persons permitting house to be used for lottery purposes liable to like penalty.
(See. 4 Id.)
Advertising of lottery tickets prohibited under like penalty. (Sec. 5, Id.)
Court of appeals has sustained prohibitory legislation. See lMilter vs. Com.,
13 Bush, 731; Com. vs. Bell, 13 Bush, 315; Com. vs. City of Frankfort, 13 Bush,
185.
LOUISIANA.
Oonstitlional provisions-Conslilutional recognition of lotteries.
General Assembly authorized to grant lottery charters provided each charter
pay $10,000 per annum to the State.
"And providedfurlher, That all charters shall cease and expire on the 1st day
of January, 1895, from which time all lotteries are prohibited in this State."
Charter of "Louisiana State Lottery" recognized as binding contract with
State, provided Ampany surrenders monopoly clause of its charter. (Const.,
1879, art. 117.)
MAINE.
"Statulory provisions.
Every lottery scheme or device of chance prohibited and declared a nui-
sance-
"And whoever is concerned therein, directly or indirectly, by making, ad-
vertising, purchasing, receiving, selling, offering for sale," etc., " any lottery
ticket or share therein, by printing, publishing, or circulating the same, or any
handbill, advertisement, or notice thereof, or by knowingly suffering the same
to be published in any newsp xper or periodical under his charge, or any cover
of paper attached thereto, shall be punished by fine not less than $100 nor more
than $1,000." (Rev. Stat., see. 3, p. 865.)
Attorney-general may, by injunclion, restrain lottery. (See. 4, Id.)
All payments and securities for lotteries void, and may be recovered back.
(See. 5. Id.)
Provision of above statute made applicable to all schemes of chance of every
kind at fairs and public gatherings, whether for benefit of churches, benevolent
institutions, or otherwise. (Sess. of 1877, chap. 176, p. 131.)

SIAItYLAN D.
Constitution lprovisions.
No lottery shall hereafter be authorized by the General Assembly. (Art. 3,
sec. 26.)
Statulory provisions.
Drawing of lottery and sale of lottery tickets prohibited. (See. 159, Rev. Code,
p. 818.)
Penalty for violating above section, fine not less than $200 nor more than
$1,000, or imprisonment not less than three nor more than twelve months. (See.
161, Id.)
In addition to above penalty, person who gives money forticket may recover
from person who sold same $50 for each ticket sold. (See. 162, Id.)
Person keeping house for lottery purposes liable to penalty of $1,000. (See.
163, Id.)
Owner who permits house to be used for sale of lottery tickets liable to pen-
alty of$1,000. (Sec. 164, Id.)
Persons bringing lottery tickets into State for sale liable to a penalty of $1,000.
(See. 163, Id.)
"If any person shall by printing, writing, or in any other way publish an ac-
count of any lottery," etc., subject to a fine of $1,000, or imprisonment for sixty
days. (See. 16, Id.)
Insuring lottery tickets punishable by fine not less than $100 nor exceeding
$1,000, or imprisonment not less than three months or more than six months,
or botl. (Sec. 167, Id.)
Contracts in aid of lotteries void. (Sec. 168, Id.)
Second offense under preceding sections punished by imprisonment in peni-
tentiary not less than two nor more than five years. (See. 169, Id.)
Preceding sections apply to all lotteries, both in and out of State. (Sec. 170, Id.)
Courts to give previous sections of statute liberal construction. (Sec.170, Id.)
MASSACHUSETTS.
Statutory provisions.
Any person setting up or promoting a lottery, liable to a fine not exceeding
02,000. (Sec. 1, Pub. Stat., 1882, ch. 209, p. 1176.)
Persons permitting a building to be used for lottery, punished by fine not ex-
ceeding $2,000. (See. 2, Id.)
Any person selling lottery tickets, subject to a fine not exceeding $2,000. (See.
3, Id.)
Second offense violating above statute, in addition to fine, shall be imprisoned
not exceeding one year. (Sec. 4. Id.)
Advertisement of ticketsproliibitcd under a penalty not exceeding $100. (See.
5, Id.)
Making or vending fictitious lottery tickets, punished by imprisonment not
exceeding three years. (See. 6, Id.)
Prizes in lotteries forfeited to State. (Sec. 8, Td.)
Aiding foreign lotteries, punished by line not exceeding $2,000. (See. 9, Id.)
Selling foreign lottery tickets, punished by fine not exceeding 2000.
MICHIGAN.
Constitutional provisions.
The Legislature shall not authorize any lottery nor permit the sale of lottery
tickets. (Art.4, sec. 27.)
Statutory provisions.
Persons setting up or promoting liable to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or Im-
prisonment not exceeding one year. (See. 9331, Howell's Ann. Stats., 1882, p.
2257.)
Selling of tickets punished by fine not more than $2,000 or imprisonment not
more than one year. (See. 9332, Id.)
Second offense pun ished by imprisonment in penitentiary not more than three
years or county jail not more than one year. (See.9333, Id.)
Advertising of lottery tickets prohibited under penalty not exceeding $100.
MINNESOTA.
Constitulioal provisions.
The Legislature shall never authorize any lottery or the sale of lottery tickets.
(Art. 4, see. 31.)
Statutory provisions.
Persons who set up or promote a lottery liable to imprisonment in countyjail
not more than six nor less than one month. (See. 1, ch. 93, Rev. Stats. 1878, p.
914.)
Selling of lottery tickets punished by fine not exceeding $00 nor less than
$100. (See. 2, Id.)
Advertisement of tickets punished by fine not exceeding $100.
stessoURa.
Statulory provisions.
Lotteries prohibited, and persons carrying on same guilty of misdemeanor.
(Sec. 1561, Rev. Stat. 1879, p. 272.)
Persons selling tickets or advertising lotteries liable to a fine not exceeding
$1,000. (Sec. 1567, Id.)
MISSISSIPPI.
Constitutional provision.
"The Legislature shall never authorize any lottery, nor shall the sale of any
lottery tickets be allowed, nor shall any lottery heretofore authorized be per-
mitted to be drawn or tickets therein to be sold." (Art. 2, sec. 15.)
Statutory provision.
Any person who sells or acts as agent for lottery tickets or keeps a place for
sale of tickets, liable to a fine not exceeding $500andimprisonment not exceed-
ing one year. (Rcv. Stat. 1880, see. 2879, p. 774.)
IONTANA.
Constitulional provision.
"The Legislative Assembly shall have no power to authorize lotteries or gift
enterprises for any purpose, and shall pass laws to prohibit the sale of lottery
or gift-enterprise tickets in the State." (Art. 19, sec. 2.)
NiEBASKA.
Cinstilutional provisioil.
"The Legislature shall not authorize any games of chance, lottery, or gift en-
terprise, um~er any pretense or for any purpose whatever." (Art. 4,sec. 21.)
Stattory provisions.
Person who sets or promotes a lottery liable to a fine of not exceeding $500.
(See. 140 Annotated Slats. 1881, p. 36.)
Sale of tickets, or acting as agent for lottery, punished by fine not exceeding
$500 or imprisonment not exceeding six months. (Sec. 141, Id.)
'Advertising of lottery tickets prohibited under a penalty of not exceeding
$100. (Sec. 142, Id.)

1890.

8715



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0640.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

AUGUST 16,

NEVADA.
Constitutional provision.
No lottery shall be authorized by this State, nor shall the sale of lottery
tickets be allowed." (Art. 4, sec. 24.)
Lotteries, and the sale of lottery tickets, prohibited under a penalty not ex-
ceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding six months. (Com. L, 1873, sees.
2495 to 2502, inclusive.)
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Statutory provisions.
Person setting up or offering to dispose of property by means of lottery liable
toa fine not exceeding $500. (See. 1, Gen'l Laws, 1876, p. 614.)
Person who sells or offers for sale lottery tickets or prints or publishes any
account of lottery, punishable by a fine not exceeding $100. (See. 2, d.)
Person mailing letters or circulars concerning lottery for delivery in this
State liable to a line of $100. (See.3, Id.)
An indictment under preceding section not necessary to prove who is the
owner of property to be drawn or who draws lottery. (Sec. 4.)
NEW JERSEY.
Statulory provisions.
All lotteries declared common and public nuisance. (See. 51, Rev. Stat. 77, p.
236.)
Persons opening or drawing a lottery liable to penalty of $2,000, one-half to
informer. (See.8,Id., p. 459.)
Sales and transfers of property in pursuance of lottery void. (Sec. 0, Id.)
Persons selling lottery tickets liable to a penalty of not exceeding $100 or im-
prisonment at hard labor not exceeding one year, or both. (Sec.52,Id.,p. 236.)
Insuring for or against lottery tickets punished by fine not exceeding $100, or
imprisonment not exceeding one year, or both. (See. 53, Id., p. 236.)
Constitutional provision.
"No lottery shall be authorized by this State, and no ticket in any lottery not
authorized by a law of this State shall be bought or sold within this State."
(Art. 4, see. 2.)
NEW YORK.
Constitutional provision.
"Nor shall any lottery hereafter be authorized or any sale of lottery tickets
allowed within this State." (Coast. 1846, Art. 1, see. 10.)
Statutory provisions.
All lotteries common and public nuisance. (Sec. 26, Rev. Stat. (7th Add.), vol.
3, p. 1967.)
Persons setting up lottery liable to a fine equal to whole amount involved in
such lottery, and if that can not be ascertained, $2,500 or imprisonment not ex-
ceeding two years, or both. (See. 27, Id.)
Advertisement of lotteries prohibited under a penalty not exceeding $150, or
imprisonment not exceeding three months. (See. 28, Id., 1968.)
Persons selling tickets liable to a fine of not exceeding $500 or imprisonment
not exceeding one year, or both. (See. 29, Id.)
Selling or offering to sell property by means of lottery punishable by fine
not exceeding $500, or imprisonment not exceeding one year. (Sec. 30, Id.)
Property offered for sale by means of lottery forfeited. (Sec. 31, Id.)
Persons purchasing tickets may recover double amount paid for same. (See.
32, Id.)
Issuing tickets prohibited by section 27, punished by fine not exceeding
$0,000, (?)or imprisonment not exceeding one year. (See. 36, id.)
The above provisions of the Revised Statutes are taken from the act of 1827,
page 327, and except from the operation of the statute lotteries authorized by
the law of the State. The clause in the Constitution of 1840, above quoted,elimi.
nates all the exceptions from the statute. (See Fay's Dig. Laws of N. Y., Vol. 3,
p. 192.)
NORTH CAROLINA.
Satulory provision.
Persons who set up or promote or offer property for sale by means of lottery
liable to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or imprisonment not exceeding six months,
or both. (See 1047 Code of 1881.)
Persons selling tickets or acting as agent of lottery to be drawn in or out of
State liable to penalty provided in preceding section. (See. 1048, Id.)
NORTH DAKOTA.
(No constitutional provision).
01110.
Constilutional provision.
"Lotteries and the sale of lottery tickets for any purpose whatever shall for-
ever be prohibited in this State." (Const. 1851, art. 15, sec. 6.)
Statutory provisions.
"Whoever writes, prints, or publishes in any way an account of any lot-
tery, etc., punished by fine not more than $100." (See. 6929, Rev. Stat., 1880.)
Selling of lottery tickets punished by fine not more than $300 or imprison-
ment not more than six months, or both. (See. 6930, Id.)
Opening, carrying on, or acting as agent for lottery punished by fine not more
than $500 nor less than $50, or by imprisonment not more than ninety nor less
than ten days. (See. 6931, Id.)
OREGON.
Constitutional provisions.
"Lotteries and the sale of lottery tickets for any purpose whatever are pro-
hibited, and the Legislative Assembly shall prevent the same by penal laws."
(Art. 15, see. 4.)
Statutory provisios.
Persons setting up or promoting a lottery liable to imprisonment in peniten-
tiary not less than six months nor more than one year, or in any county jail not
less than three months nor more than one year, or by line not more than $1,000
nor less than $100. (See. 659. Rev. Laws, 1872, page 435.)
Selling lottery tickets punished by fine not less than $50 nor more than $500,
or by imprisonment in county jail not less than three months r*. more than
one year. (Sec. 660, Id.)
Advertisement of lottery ticketspunished by imprisonment in county jail not
less than one month nor more than six months, or by fine not less than $20 nor
more than t$20. (See. 661, Id.)
Selling of false and fictitious lottery tickets punished by imprisonment in
penitentiary not less than one year nor more than three years. (See. 662, d.)
Second conviction for violating sections 659 and 660; Pcnalty, imprisonment
in penitentiary not more than three nor less than one year. (See. 664, Id.)

PENNSYLVANIA.
Statutory provisions.
All lotteries declared to be a public nuisance and all transfers of property in
pursuance of any lottery void. (See. 81, Brightly and P.'s Dig., vol. I, p.331.)
Setting up a lottery punished by fine not exceeding $1,000 and imprisonment
in solitary confinement at hard labor not exceeding one year. (See.82, I.)
Any person who sells or exposes to sale or advertises for sale lottery tickets
Shall be sentenced to imlrisonment at hard labor not exceeding two years, and
to pay a fine not exceeding $1,000.
RHODE ISLAND.
Constitutional provisions,
"All lotteries shall hereafter be prohibited in this State except those already
authorized by the General Assembly." (Art.4, see. 12.)
Statutory provisions.
Persons setting up, promoting, or carrying on a lottery guilty of a misde-
meanor, and liable to imprisonment not exceeding two years or fine sot ex-
ceeding $2,000. (See. 1, elI. 246, Public Slat. 1882, p. 690.)
The sale of tickets il lottery punished by fine not exceeding $50. (Sec. 2, Id.,
p. 691.)
Notes given for lottery tickets void. (See. 3, Id.)
SOUTH CAROLINA.
Constitutional provisions.
"Lotteries and the sale of lottery tikets for any purpose whatever are pro-
hibited, and tile General Assembly shall prevent the same by penal statutes."
(Art. 14, see. 2.)
Statlatory provisions.
Setting ip and promoting lottery punilshed by fine of $1,000; one.third to
State, one-third to informer, and one-third to poor, and court shall also com-
mit party to jail for twelve months. (Sec. 1, chap. 135, Rev. Stat., p. 737.)
Persons advertising or contributing to a lottery subject to a fine of $100. (See.
2, Id.)
Selling lottery tickets punished by fine of not exceeding $10,000. (Sec. 3, Id.)
SOUTH DAKOTA.
Constitutionat provisions. -
"The Legislature shall notauthorize any game of chance, lottery, or gift en-
terprise under any pretense or for any purpose whatsoever." (Art. 3, sec. 25.)
TENNESSEE.
Constitutional provisions.
"The Legislature salla have no power to authorize lotteries for any purpose,
and shall pass laws to prohibit the sale of lottery tickets in this State." (Art.2,
see. 5.)
Slatutory provisions.
Any person who makes or aids in making, draws or aids in drawing, or in any
way interested in drawing a lottery, guilty of misdemeanor, and liable toa fine
of $1.000 and imprisonment in county jail three months. (See. 4889, Rev. Stat.
1871, vol.3. This see. taken from act 1835, ch. 44. see. 2.)
Selling of tickets in lottery punished by fine of $500 and one month in county
jail. (Sec. 4890, Id.)
Persons buying lottery tickets liable to a fine not exceeding $100 or imprison-
ment in county jail not more than twenty days. (See. 4891, Id.)
TEXAS.
Constituiional provisions.
The Legislature shall pass laws prohibiting the establishment of lotteries and
gift enterprises in the State as well as the sale of tickets in lotteries, gift enter-
prises, or other evasions involving the lottery principle established or existing
in other States. (Coast. 1875, art. 3,see. 47.)
Statutory provisions.
If any person shall establish a lottery or dispose of any estate, real or personal,
by lottery, he shall be flled notless than $100 nor more than U1,000. (Crim. Code,
1870, art. 351, p. 47.)
ifany person shall sell or offer for sale or keep for sale any ticket or part of
ticket in any lottery, he shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $0.
(Crim. Code, 1879, art. 352, p.47.)
VERMONT.
Statutory provisions.
Setting up or promotinga lottery not authorized by law of State punished by
fine not nore tian $200. (See. 4302, Rev. Laws, 1880, p. 285.)
Disposing of property by game of chance punished by fine not more than $200.
(See. 4303, Id.)
Selling of tickets in lotteries except those authorized by the law of the State
or of the United States punished by fine not exceeding $300. (See. 4304, Id.)
VIRGINIA.
Constitutional provisions.
"No lottery shall hereafter be authorized by law, and the buying, selling, or
transferring of ticket or chances in any lottery shall be prollibited." (Art. 5,
see. 18.)
Old constitution contains same provisions.
Statutory provisions.
Persons buying or selling lottery tickets or setting up orpi'omoting a lottery
liable to imprisonment in jail not more than one year or fined not more than
$500.
WASHINGTON.
Constitutional provision.
The Legislature shall never authorize any lottery or grant any divorce. (Art.
III, see. 24.)
WEST VIRGINIA.
Constitutional provision.
No lottery shallbo allowed by law, and the buying, selling, or transferring of
tickets or chances in any lottery shall be prohibited. JArt. II, sec.1.)
Statutory provisions.
Setting up or promoting lottery, and the selling of lottery tickets, punished
by imprisonment in county jail not more than one year, and fine not exceeding
$500. (See. 11, Code of 1870, p. 698. See also acts of 1875, p. 150.)
All property proposed to be drawn bylottery forfeited to State. (See. 12, Code
of 1870, p. 698.)

8716



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0641.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE.

WISCONSIN.
Coust ilutionat provision.
"The Legiilature shall nevar authorize any lottery." (Art. IIf, sec.24.)
Statutory provision.
Setting up or promoting a lottery, punished by line or punished by imprison-
ment in county jail not more than six months, or fine not more than $100. (See.
4523, Rev. Stat., 1878, p. 1068.)
Selling of lottery tickets punished by fine not exceeding $500. (See. 4524,
Id.)
Persons advertising lottery tickets or aiding in sale of same liable to a fine
not exceeding $t00. (See. 4525. Id.)
Selling fictitious lottery tickets punished by imprisonment not more than one
year nor less than six months, or fine not exceeding $500. (Sec. 4526, Id.)
Property in lottery forfeited to State. (See. 4527. Id.)
WYOMING.
(No constitutional provision.)
RECAPITULATION.
Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho,
Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Mon-
tana, Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Ohio,
Oregon, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas,
Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, and Wisconsin, in all, thirty-
one Stateshave in their constitutions prohibited lotteries, while Con-
necticut, Kentucky, Maine, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Hampshire,
North Carolina, and Pennsylvania, eight, have enacted laws prohibit-
ing lotteries. Delaware and Vermont, by their respective constitu-
tions, prohibit all lotteries except those authorized by law, and none
are authorized by law. North Dakota and Wyoming, so far as I can
find,havefailedtodealwith the question in their constitutions. Loui-
siana, by her constitution, recognizes lotteries, and her Legislature is
authorized to grant charters to lottery companies upon the payment of
$40,000 per annum to the State. "All charters to expire 1st day of
January, 1895. Lotteries prohibited thereafter."
Thus, forty-two of the forty-four States of the Union have expressed
the wishes of their ppople; and, it being the wish of the great majority
of the States of this Union that lotteries should not be permitted, it is
my humble opinion that the parent Government should protect the
States to the fullest extent.
Many of the States by statutory provision prohibit lottery advertise-
ments and prohibit lottery agencies or the sale of lottery tickets, and
subject the offender to fines from $50 to $2,000. Many, very many,
of the best newspapers in the land refuse to become parties to this
scheme of obtaining money by false pretenses, and refuse to advertise
lotteries, and advocate the j ustness of the people's cause in excluding
from the mails papers that do advertise lotteries or lottery drawings.
I regret to say that the District of Columbia, the seat of the Govern-
ment of this nation, has failed to provide necessary legislation to pro-
hibit the carrying on and advertising this worst of all classes of gambling,
and in consequence this city contributes, as I am advised, about $1,-
500,000 annually.
The immense wealth accumulated by this Louisiana State Lottery
has enabled it to control almost everything in Louisiana. Finance,
politics, morals, seem to be controlled by this power, aud to oppose it,
particularly in New Orleans, seems to be fatal.
If we should be disposed to believe editorials appearing in the lead-
ing New Orleans papers lately, we would be convinced that lottery
money was used very largely to elect governors and Legislatures with
a view to control legislation.
I am advised, too, that not long since, almost within the shadow of
the Dome of the Capitol of this nation, a well known gentleman of this
city gave a dinner to a number of distinguished gentlemen, and when
the wine flowed freely one of the speakers of the occasion took the op-
portunity to put all parties upon notice that if there was any legislation
permitted at this session of Congress antagonistic to the interests of
the Louisiana State Lottery, the company would see during the next
campaign that any member favoring such legislation should be rele-
gated to the shades of private life. If this be true, it isqluite apparent
that the Louisiana State Lottery is not only in the business of making
statesmen, but when necessary is disposed to engage in unmaking them.
The good people of the State of Louisiana are making an honest, hon-
orable, heroic effort to purge the State of this plague, that has for the
past twenty years been a blot upon the good name and fame of her
people. Let us stand up and be counted as her friends. The United
States can not afford to longer remain a silent partner. [Applause.]
Mr. HITT. Mr. Speaker, the lottery is the most pernicious and
widespread form of gambling vice, because it uses for its instrument
the Post-Office Department; that is, the Government. The ordinary
gambling hell is confined to one house and its frequenters. A lottery
spreads through the whole nation; it reaches everywhere, and it does
it by the aid of the Government. It was not for this that we built up
our magnificent postal system, which is supported at such vast expense
annually. Yet that postal system is the instrument to-day and might
almost be called the partner or accessory of this great swindling
scheme.
What else is there of it ? The capital stock of the Louisiana Lottery
Company when it was organized was called $1,000,000; that is, they
pretended that there was a million of dollars invested in shares of
stock. As a matter of fact, the investment consisted of some stationery

and tickets, a franchise, and the facilities afforded by the United States
mails, with the protection which the Government accords to the sacred*
ness of the seal, and thus kept all their business secret, while affording
them every facility for carrying on this profitable mischief. So thl
stock rose to 1,400 per cent. This bill, it is believed, will do what
several others which we have passed for the same purpose tailed to
do, stop that partnership, end that abuse; and we can prove by our
votes to-day in passing it as Representatives that this is a Government
for the people, for their good, and not to destroy the people by nourish-
ing this engine of deceit and wrong.
Again and again the Postmaster-General has tried to exclude the
lottery letters and tickets from the mails, but the law has been evaded
and the question now comes up again with the increase of the wrong.
The President has sent us a pressing message; the Post-Office Depart,
ment has collaborated in the preparation of this bill; the Attorney-Gen-
eral has pronounced it constitutional and efficient; it has the sympathy
of good men and women everywhere. It is to extinguish an industry
of wrong that has grown to such stupendous proportions that it now
gathers in $22,000,000 annually from the people.
The company has become so balefully powerful that it attempts to
debauch Legislatures and the press and many of the people in a great
State. It attempted by enormous bribery and offer of a quarter of a
million dollars to capture North Dakota, but the sturdy people of that
State, poor and hard pressed as they were, proved to be of a stronger
and better material than these schemers had estimated.
It is demoralizing to people. Go down to their office in this city
and see the long line of anxious faces gathered there every day, poorly
dressed women, workingmen, eager clerks, the eyes of all lighted
with cupidity and dazzled with the promises of the company. These
policyoffices exert the same evil influence everywhere, and thousands
more are reached through the mails until the lottery craze and infatu.
ation grows upon them and they spend all they have in this insane
gambling, and often end in ruin, sometimes in suicide.
There is an enormous gambling hell conducted with great splendor
at Monaco, in Italy, which has corrupted the press into silence and
entices the world by palatial splendors. An officer of the British
Christian Association, which had undertaken to investigate the real
workings of that place, told me that they had a list of two hundred
suicides there in one year, none of which had been published in thQ
press. This was a gambling establishment confined to one place, ang
not like this stupendous Louisiana scheme, which reachesits arms over
the whole nation.
It has corrupted the employgs in the Post-Office Department, as the
inspectors have reported, and made some of the agents of the Govern-
ment the agents ofthe lottery, who can be influenced, just as it was proved
in Louisiana that members of the Legislature can be influenced by so
rich a power. Railway postal clerks are tempted to rob the mails, see-
ing the vast number of these lottery letters passing through containing
money and knowing that they are letters from a dupe to a swindler
and the whole business dishonest. It presents unusual temptation to
the railway postal clerks, and the Department states that there has
