tury, the idea that the mentally ill should
receive humane treatment in hospitals
emerged. In the United States, it was not
until the end of the 19th century that
the policy of treating the mentally ill
in State hospitals became dominant
policy. We are now beginning to ap-
proach the end of the 20th century and
the American people have a right to
comorehensive mental health insurance
coverage that would actually reduce the
overall cost of health care.
Our constituencies want to lead lives
which are productive, meaningful, and
fulfilling. However, if they or their loved
ones are afflicted with some form of
mental illness or emotional problem, they
are less apt to be able to lead full and
productive lives because emotional con-
ditions interfere with such things as
one's ability to get and keep a job, or to
raise a family whose children are not
plagued by neglect or abuse.

Mr. Chairman, this is why I am per-
sistent and continue to reintroduce legis-
lation aimed at providing comprehensive
mental health coverage to all Americans.
Hopefully, this could be a part of a na-
tional health insurance program, but, if
not, I advocate a separate program for
mental health.
Even though the Federal Government
has supported community mental health
centers which utilize a sliding fee scale,
for many this is not enough. For exam-
ple, Valde and Fiester (1976) found that
Spanish surnamed families that lived
within a specific community mental
health center made from $3,000 to $5,000
annually. More than 50 percent of these
families had an income of less than
$5,000. Although the incomes have risen
in the past 4 years, the actual buying
power is less because of inflation.
In that same study, over 63.3 percent
of the clients had to take prescribed
medication. Taken together, the sliding
fee, the cost of transportation, the pre-
scribed medication, and their meager in-
comes of $5,000 or less, it is not hard to
see why mental health care remains in-
accessible for the poor and many middle-
income families.
Although a fee of $5 may seem mini-
mal, for the have-nots, it can be devas-
tating, especially when consideration is
given to the fact that the majority of
mental illnesses are chronic and debili-
tating. The poor also tend to be multiple
users of human services. We all know
that it is the poor and middle income
who experience the most difficulty with
payments for mental health services.
Since the vast majority of the popula-
tion in this country are from the middle
and lower income categories and the cost
of mental health care remains prohibi-
tive to them, there exists a need to ap-
propriate money for a national mental
health insurance.
If a family has a member who is schiz-
ophrenic, they can usually anticipate the
course to be of a chronic nature. There
will be repeated episodes of severe dis-
ability and a liftime of varying degrees
of impairment and emotional stress for
the patient, the family, and significant
others in his life. Therefore, the total
burden of this illness to society is con-
siderable and financially taxing. Accord-
ing to the 1975 census, the mean family
income was $10,401 for black Americans,
$11,096 for Americans of Hispanic origin;
and $16,115 for non-Hispanic white
Americans. These figures coupled with
our high annual inflation rate makes the
burden of mental illness on the family
extremely taxing and probably consti-
tutes one of the primary public health
issues of our times.
A national insurance plan which in-
cludes complete mental health coverage
has the potential of actually reducing
the overall cost of national health insur-
ance because it would provide coverage
for those illnesses and symptoms which
are of a debilitating nature if not treated
promptly. Symptoms such as chronic
back pain, migraine headaches, and
acute gastric pain often necessitate in-
tensive medical workups and in some
cases eventual surgical intervention. The

22700



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0833.txt

August 22, 1980

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - HOUSE

medical community recognizes the fact
that more than 60 percent of the people
hospitalized in general hospitals for
physical illnesses have diseases and com-
plaints based on emotional problems.
Increasingly, the medical community
is beginning to develop a deeper appre-
ciation for the part the psyche plays in
maintaining the physical well-being of
an  individual. According to Dorken
(1976), the single category of human
disability in the United States was at-
tributable to mental disorders.
The   proposed  program   would   be
funded through a mental health tax with
the funding mechanism similar to those
under some of pending national health
insurance bills. This program that I am
introducing could be supplemental to
any national health insurance plan or
could  be  instituted  as  a  separate
program.
The major services provided for under
the bill include: psychiatric hospital
care, psychotherapy, prescribed drugs,
community health center services, and
home therapy. Innovative services pro-
vided for by this bill include: Halfway
house care, day mental hospital care,
and night mental hospital care.
The focal point of care would be com-
munity based and emphasis would be
placed on treating the individual while
in contact with his family. Experience
has demonstrated that this type of care
reduces the rate of institutionalization
and allows the person to lead a richer
and more productive life in the com-
munity.
Halfway house care as a treatment
modality is a relatively new phenomenon
in the mental health arena. Historically,
there were a few halfway houses for per-
sons who had been in penal institutions,
however, the use of the halfway house
approach for persons with a mental ill-
ness was relatively rare. The results of
people participating in halfway house
treatment is promising and worthy of
increased attention.
In San Antonio, the district which I
represent, the halfway house program
operates on a funding mechanism which
is a combination of private fees, private
contributions, and moneys from     the
Texas Rehabilitation Commission, the
United Way, and the Texas Commission
for the Blind.
Approximately 80 to 85 percent of the
residents of the halfway house in San
Antonio are full paying or on a sliding
fee scale. The major emphasis of the
halfway house treatment program is to
rehabilitate and help those who other-
wise might be doomed to a dismal life
of institutionalization. One of the goals
of treatment in a halfway house program
is to assist mental patients become pro-
ductive members of society.
Part of the difficulty with today's in-
adequate mental health care services is
that many mental patients have not had
the opportunity to participate in halfway
house treatment because none has been
available. Where facilities do exist, they
are frequently overcrowded and unable
to accommodate and accept any more pa-
tients. Some mental patients never reach
the point in the course of their treatment
CXXVI-1427-Part 17

where they recover enough to become
eligible for halfway house treatment.
Mr. Chairman, one of the most im-
portant purposes of this bill is the preven-
tion of mental illness. This goal will be
accomplished by giving to all Americans
a right to obtain adequate preventive
mental health care which is affordable.
With so many Americans affected by
some form of mental disorder, it is time
for us to recognize mental and emotional
illnesses as valid forms of illnesses. Our
country is facing a crisis in the care and
treatment of the mentally ill. We have a
long way to go in catching up and one
way to do this would be to start consider-
ing mental health insurance as an inte-
gral part of our national health insur-
ance packages. If health in its broadest
meaning is a right to which all Americans
are entitled to, then a mental health in-
surance bill should be passed by this
Congress.
REFERENCES
Dorken, H., Preface to H. Dorken and Asso-
ciates, The Professional Psychologists Today
(1976).
Pollack, E. S., Memorandum: Provisional
Data on Patient Care Episodes in Mental
Health Facilities, 1975. May 18, 1977.
Task Panel Report Submitted to The
President's Commission on Mental Heatlh,
Vol. II, Appendix, February 15, 1978.
Taube, C. A., and Redick, R. W., Mental
Health Statistical Note No. 127. National In-
stitute of Mental Health, Division of Biome-
try and Enidemiology, Survey and Reports
Branch, February, 1976.
Vischi, T., Jones, K., Shank, B., & Lima, L.,
The Alcohol Drug Abuse and Mental Heatlh
National Data Book, January, 1980.
Wiggins, J. Utilization and Costs of Mental
Health Services, in H. Dorken and Associates,
The Professional Psychologists Today, 1976.
Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Chairman, I have
no further requests for time.
Before I yield back the balance of my
time, Mr. Chairman, I also want to join
in paying tribute to the ranking minority
member of the subcommittee, Dr. TIM
LEE CARTER, for his contributions in this
legislation. His contributions in this leg-
islation, while important, are only one
part of the overall contributions he has
made to health care in this country and
to the fabric of legislation that will long
stand as a monument to him in contrib-
uting to the betterment of the people of
this country.
Mr. MARRIOTT. Mr. Chairman, will
the gentleman yield?
Mr. WAXMAN. I yield to the gentle-
man from Utah.
Mr. MARRIOTT. I appreciate the gen-
tleman yielding. I, too, may not have an-
other chance to express my appreciation
to Dr. CARTER. He and I have been long-
time friends since I have been here, at
least the last 4 years. I think he has made
a tremendous contribution to this body,
and I appreciate all he has done for both
the Congress, this great country, and this
legislation.
Mr. WAXMAN. I appreciate the gen-
tleman's comments and want to inform
him he will have additional chances to
comment on Dr. CARTER'S leadership be-
cause we have a number of other bills yet
coming from our subcommittee on which
Dr. CARTER'S clear imprint is present.

Mr. CARTER. Mr. Chairman, will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. WAXMAN. I yield to my good
friend, the ranking minority member of
the subcommittee, Dr. CARTER.
Mr. CARTER. I feel very humble. It
has been a labor of love to have been a
part of the legislation involving health
over the past several years. It has been
a pleasure to serve with you and with
the Members of this House and to pre-
serve the pure water system of the dis-
tinguished gentleman from San Antonio.
I thank my good friend for yielding and
for his kind remarks.
* Mr. STAGGERS. Mr. Chairman, I am
pleased to support this bill which does
a great deal toward helping some of the
most vulnerable people in our society.
The changes provided in this legisla-
tion originally came to the Subcommit-
tee on Health and Environment from the
President's  Commission   on   Mental
Health. That group, under the personal
leadership of the First Lady, developed
a series of recommendations for provid-
ing better mental health care to children,
to the elderly, and to the chronically
mental ill of the country. After much
work by the subcommittee and by the
full Commerce Committee, the bill now
provides for continued support of the
local community programs, for new pro-
grams to provide specialized help, and
an increased role for State governments
in planning these services,
I am especially pleased that the bill
contains a grant program devised by the
subcommittee to aid children who are
severely disturbed. We all know of the
special tragedy of a young life which is
disrupted bv mental illness and emotional
problems. What few of us recognize is
the inadequacy of the mental health sys-
tem in treating those children. They are
moved from hospital to hospital, from
home to institution, with little specialized
help. Families are without support to care
for their young loved ones.
Under H.R. 7299, the Federal Govern-
ment will provide grants to develop pro-
grams and treatment for these children
and their families. I am proud to sup-
port this provision to return these chil-
dren to normal lives as they grow up.
I want to commend the subcommittee
chairman, Mr. WAXMAN, and the able
ranking minority member, Dr. CARTER,
for their work on this bill. It is a good
piece of legislation, and I urge all the
Members to support it.*
o Mr. FRENZEL. Mr. Chairman, since
my days in the Minnesota State Legis-
lature, I have been a continuing sup-
porter of the idea that patients suffering
from mental disorders could be more ef-
fectively treated in their own community,
as opposed to institutional settings. Since
I came to Congress, I have had the oppor-
tunity to enthusiastically supoort several
revisions of the original Community Men-
tal Centers Act, which were aimed at
expanding and improving deinstitution-
alization programs.
Although the original legislation, en-
acted in 1963, was intended to be a dem-
onstration program, to offer formula
grants to States to induce them to re-

22701



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0834.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - HOUSE

August 22, 1980

place the traditional inadequate insti-
tutions with smaller, community-based
facilities, the scope of the program was
broadened considerably in subsequent re-
visions of the act with Federal support
to date, totaling some $2.287 billion over
the past 13 years.
The Community Mental Health Cen-
ters Act is a good program. Since its in-
ception, Federal dollars have assisted in
the creation of 763 community mental
health centers which have made mental
health services available to over 110 mil-
lion people. Such services have been pro-
vided to rape victims, alcoholics, drug ad-
dicts, and include treating children and
the elderly. The committee report states
that "Over 712 of the centers are fully
operational and, in 1979, provided direct
services to over 2.4 million persons."
It is my understanding that some 167
centers are now operating independently
(without Federal support) and 325 cen-
ters no longer require basic operations
support. More importantly, this Federal
initiative has generated substantial State
and local support, which together has
resulted in a dramatic shift from in-
patient to outpatient mental health care
and a decrease of 36 percent in the num-
ber of psychiatric hospital beds in the
United States today. Clearly, the pro-
gram has been enormously successful
and I have been privileged to support
it.
It is for this reason that I am so
deeply disturbed by the cost of H.R. 7279.
In spite of Congress failure to balance
the fiscal year 1981 budget, and consider-
ing that even the most worthwhile pro-
grams are slated for severe budget cuts,
I would have been pleased to support the
$13 million increase for the Community
Mental Health Centers Act which is in-
cluded in the first part of H.R. 7299.
However, H.R. 7299, goes far beyond a
simple revision and extension of the
Community Mental Health Centers Act.
The second part of the bill totally over-
hauls the CMHC Act by creating a va-
riety of new grant authorizations, many
of which I strongly support, beginning in
fiscal year 1982-84. But this section au-
thorizes some $530 million over 3 years,
bringing the increase to over 300 per-
cent. That is more than our budget can
stand.
I do not question the value of these
programs. My primary concern rests with
asking the taxpayers to triple the au-
thorization at a time when taxpayers are
already paying some $80 billion in fiscal
year 1981 for interest on Congress past
sins for oversuending-those past sins
will accumulate to a grand total of close
to $1 trillion in debt.
It is not fair to dangle this $530 million
authorization in a carrot like fashion,
when in fact we are probably going to
wind up asking our Appropriation Com-
mittee members to go slow when it
comes to giving out the actual dollars.
My constituents tell me that they would
all benefit from improved mental health
if Congress were ever to bring inflation
under control.
With great reluctance I shall vote for
the Community Mental Health Centers
Act. My vote is because it is a worthwhile
program. My regret is because it does not
need such an expensive authorization

to carry on its successful work. I urge my
colleagues to take a close look at our
current economic picture as they vote
on this measure.*
* Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Chairman, I rise
in support of H.R. 7299, the Mental
Health Systems Act. I am expecially
pleased that title VI has been included-
the rape services support system. I
know that my friend and colleague DoUG
WALGREN worked hard in developing this
title and every rape program and support
group in the Eighth Congressional Dis-
trict of Virginia is appreciative.
The rape crisis centers I have worked
with in my district have continually con-
tacted me about the need for legislation
which would support direct victim serv-
ices. Freeing staff from the time-con-
suming activities of fundraising would
allow staff to concentrate on finding
long-term funding resources and would
allow them to beef up victim services.
The legislation we are considering here
today authorizes the Secretary of HHS
to award grants and contracts to public
and nonprofit rape crisis centers to as-
sist in meeting the costs of providing di-
rect services to rape victims. Types of
direct services include accompaniment
of the victim to medical, social, and legal
services; counseling and referral serv-
ices to the victim and the victim's im-
mediate family; basic operating ex-
penses; for example, telephone hotlines,
office space, and utilities; consultation
with allied professionals and public edu-
cation materials and programs.
Self-sufficiency of existing RCC's will
be developed through the establishment
of long-term public and private funding
sources.
The fragile financial conditions of
many of the RCC's throughout the
Eighth District and around the coun-
try result in periodic closings and hand-
to-mouth existence. We must pass H.R.
7299 today to alleviate these problems
and assure that these needed support
services will be available. It could easily
be a member of one of our families who
would need assistance from a rape crisis
center.*
0 Mr. ROYBAL. Mr. Chairman, I rise
in support of H.R. 7299. I would, how-
ever, like to say that I am sorry that the
House version of the Mental Health Sys-
tems Act does not contain a special sec-
tion of grants for the elderly as does the
Senate bill, S. 1177, that was passed by
that body last month.
The major aging organizations, the
National Council of Senior Citizens, the
National Retired Teachers Association/
American Association of Retired Per-
sons, and the National Council on Aging,
are all on record as supporting the aging
section in the Senate bill. The U.S. Com-
mission on Civil Rights and the Mental
Health Association also support the
Senate amendment.
I believe that we need special grants
for the elderly so that groups with inter-
est, and knowledge can provide the
unique support services and treatment
required by this population. The Senate
bill requires that public or nonprofit
entities must provide outreach services
and a differential diagnosis to distin-
guish between and establish the need for

mental health services and other medical
care prior to treatment, and at least one
other service. The other services include
identifying needs and providing serv-
ices not being provided by existing pro-
grams, providing personnel for mental
health and support services, coordinating
services of other agencies, and providing
services and training in nursing homes.
It is my hope that we can incorporate
these fine ideas in the final version of
the bill.*
The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to the rule,
the Clerk will now read the bill by titles.
The Clerk read as follows:
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION. 1. This Act may be cited as the
"Mental Health Systems Act".
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TITLE I-COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH
SERVICES
Sec. 101. Preparation grants.
Sec. 102. Grants  for  community    mental
health centers.
Sec. 103. Grants for services for the chroni-
cally mentally ill.
Sec. 104. Grants for services for severely
mentally disturbed children and
adolescents.
Sec. 105. Grants for mental health services
for priority populations.
Sec. 106. Grants for non-revenue-producing
activities.
Sec. 107. Grants for mental health services
in ambulatory health care centers.
Sec. 108. Grants for members of Indian
tribes or organizations.
Sec. 109. Grants for innovative projects.
TITLE II--STATE PROGRAMS
Sec. 201. Grants to improve the administra-
tion of State mental health pro-
grams.
Sec. 202. Pilot projects for State administra-
tion of grants.
TITLE III-PREVENTION
Sec. 301. Demonstration projects.
TITLE IV-GENERAL PROVISIONS
PART A-SATE PLANS
Sec. 401. State mental health services plans.
Sec. 402. Contents of plans.
PART B-APLICATIONS AND RELATED
PROVISIONS
Sec. 403. Applications.
Sec. 404. Technical assistance.
PART C-GRANT LIMITS
Sec. 406. Limits on grants.
PART D-PERFORMANCE
Sec. 407. Performance standards.
Sec. 408. Evaluation and monitoring.
PART E-DEFINITIONS
Sec. 409. Definition of community mental
health center.
Sec. 410. Other definitions.
PART F-MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 411. Indirect provision of services.
Sec. 412. Cooperative agreements.
Sec. 413. Contract authority.
TITLE V-MINORITY CONCERNS
Sec. 501. Associate Director of National In-
stitute of Mental Health for Mi-
nority Concerns.
TITLE VI-RAPE SERVICES SUPPORT
PROGRAM
Sec. 601. Grants for services for rape victims.
TITLE VII-EXTENSION OF COMMUNITY
MENTAL HEALTH CENTERS ACT
Sec. 701. One-year extension of Community
Mental Health Centers Act.

22702



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0835.txt

August 22, 1980

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD -HOUSE

TITLE VIII-MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 801. Obligated service for mental health
traineeships.
Sec. 802. Conforming amendments.
Sec. 803. Special pay for Public Health Serv-
ice physicians and dentists.
Sec. 804. Mental health personnel.
TITLE I-COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH
SERVICES
PREPARATION GRANTS
SEC. 101. (a) For the purpose of assisting
public or non-profit private entities to pre-
pare for providing mental health services in
a mental health service area, the Secretary
may make grants to such entities for proj-
ects to-
(1) assess the needs of mental health
service areas for mental health services;
(2) design mental health services pro-
grams for such areas based on such assess-
ment;
(3) obtain financial and professional as-
sistance and support for such programs;
and
(4) initiate and encourage continuing
community involvement in the development
and operation of such programs.
(b) The amount of any grant under sub-
section (a) may not exceed $75,000.
(c) (1) Only one grant may be found un-
der subsection (a) with respect to a men-
tal health service area.
(2) No grant may be made under subsec-
tion (a) with respect to any mental health
service area if a grant has previously been
made under section 202 of the Community
Mental Health Centers Act with respect to
(A) the same area, or (B) any other area
any substantial part of which (as deter-
mined by the Secretary) is included in that
mental health service area.
(3) No application for a grant under sub-
section (a) for a project may be approved
unless the State mental health authority
for the State in which the prolect is to be
located has recommended that the Secre-
tary approve the application.
(d) For the purnose of making grants un-
der sub~ection (a) there are authorized to
be apuropriated $1,000,000 for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 1982, $1,000,000 for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 1983, and
$1,000.000 for the fiscal year ending Septem-
ber 30, 1984.
GRANTS FOR COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH
CENTERS
SEC. 102. (a) (1) Subject to section 406, the
Secretary may make grants to public and
nonprofit private community mental health
centers to assist them in meeting their costs
of operation (other than costs related to con-
struction).
(2) No application for a grant under para-
graph (1) for a community mental health
center which has not received a grant for
its operation under the Community Mental
Health Centers Act may be approved unless-
(A) (I) the community mental health cen-
ter for which the application is submitted is
operated by a State, or
(ii) in the case of any other center, the ap-
plication has been recommended for ap-
proval by the State mental health authority
for the State in which the center is located;
and
(B) in the case of an application for a
grant to be determined under subsection
(c) (1)(B), the application is accompanied
by assurances, provided by the State mental
health authority for the State in which the
center is located and satisfactory to the Sec-
retary, that the grant anplied for and the
State, local, and other funds and the fees,
premiums, and third-party reimbirsements
which the applicant may reasonably be ex-
pected to collect in the year for which the
grant would be made are sufficient to meet
the projected costs of operation for that year.

(3) Grants under paragraph (1) may only
be made for a grantee's costs of operation
during the first eight years after its estab-
lishment. In the case of a community mental
health center or other entity which received
a grant under section 220 of the Community
Mental Health Centers Act (as in effect before
the date of enactment of the Community
Mental Health Centers Amendments of 1975)
or section 203(a) of such Act, such center
or other entity shall, for purposes of grants
under paragraph (1), be considered as hav-
ing been in operation for a number of years
equal to the sum of the number of grants in
the first series of grants it received under
such section and the number of grants it
has received under paragraph (1).
(b) (1) Each grant under subsection (a)
to a community mental health center shall
be made for the costs of its operation for the
one-year period beginning on the first day
of the month in which such grant is made,
except that if at the end of such period a
center has not obligated all the funds re-
ceived by it under a grant, the center may
use the unobligated funds under the grant
in the succeeding year for the same purposes
for which such grant was made but only if
the center is eligible to receive a grant under
subsection (a) for such succeeding year.
(2) No community mental health center
may receive more than eight grants under
subsection (a).
(c) (1) The amount of a grant for any year
made under subsection (a) shall be the lesser
of the amounts computed under subpara-
graph (A) or (B) as follows:
(A) An amount equal to the amount by
which the grantee's projected costs of opera-
tion for that year exceed the total of State,
local, and other funds and of the fees,
premiums, and third-party reimbursements
which the grantee may reasonably be ex-
pected to collect in that year.
(B) (i) Except as provided in clause (i),
an amount equal to the following percent-
ages of the grantee's projected costs of opera-
tion: 80 per centum of such costs for the
first year of its operation, 65 per centum of
such costs for the second year of its opera-
tion, 50 per centum of such costs for the
third year of its operation, 35 per centum of
such costs for the fourth year of its opera-
tion, 30 per centum of such costs for the fifth
and sixth years of its operation, and 25 per
centum of such costs for the seventh and
eighth years of its operation.
(it) In the case of a grantee providing serv-
ices for persons in an area des!gnated by the
Secretary as an urban or rural poverty area,
an amount equal to the following percent-
ages of the grantee's projected costs of opera-
tion: 90 per centum of such costs for the
first two years of its operation, 80 per centum
of such costs for the third year of its opera-
tion, 70 per centum    of such costs for the
fourth year of its operation, 60 per centum
of such costs for the fifth year of its opera-
tion, 50 per centum of such costs for the
sixth year of its operation, 40 per centum of
such costs for the seventh year of its opera-
tion, and 30 per centum of such costs for
the e!ghth year of its operation.
(2) (A) The amount of a grant prescribed
by paragraph (1) for a community mental
health center for any year shall be reduced
by the amount of unobligated funds from
the preceding year which the center is au-
thorized, under subsection (b) (1), to use in
that year.
(B) If in a fiscal year the sum of-
(i) the total of State, local, and other
funds, and of the fees, premiums, and third-
party reimbursements collected in that year,
and
(it) the amount of the grant received un-
der this section by a center or entity,
exceeds its costs of operation for that year
because the amount collected was greater

than expected, and if the center is eligible
to receive a grant under subsection (a) in
the succeeding year, an adjustment in the
amount of that grant shall be made in such
a manner that the center may retain such
an amount (not to exceed 5 per centum of
the amount by which such sum exceeded
such costs) as the center can demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the Secretary will be
used to enable the center (I) to expand and
improve its services, (II) to increase the
number of persons (eligible to receive serv-
ices from such a center) it is able to serve,
(III) to modernize its facilities, (IV) to Im-
prove the administration of its service pro-
grams, and    (V) to establish a financial
reserve for the purpose of offsetting the de-
crease in the percentage of Federal participa-
tion in program operations in future years.
(d) (1) For payments under initial grants
under subsection (a) there are authorized to
be appropriated $24,000,000 for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 1982, $27,000,000 for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 1983, and
$30,000,000 for the fiscal year ending Septem-
ber 30, 1984.
(2) There are authorized to be appropri-
ated for the fiscal year ending September 30.
1982. and for each of the next nine fiscal
years such sums as may be necessary for pay-
ments under continuation grants under sub-
section  (a) to community mental health
centers.
GRANTS FOR SERVICES FOR THE CHRONICALLY
MENTALLY ILL
SEC. 103. (a) The Secretary may make
grants to State mental health authorities,
community mental health centers, and other
public and nonprofit private entities for the
provision of services, including case man-
agement, designed to assist the chronically
mentally ill in gaining access to essential
mental health services, medical and dental
care, rehabilitation services, and employ-
ment, housing, and other support services
to enable the chronically mentally Ill to
function to the maximum extent of their
capabilities.
(b) An application for a grant under sub-
section (a) shall contain a plan for the pro-
vision of the mental health and support
services to be provided with the grant and
describing the priorities to be applied by the
applicant in determining which services to
offer. Such a plan shall be in accordance
with the State health plan in effect under
section 1524 of the Public Health Service Act
in the State of the applicant.
(c) In considering applications for grants
under subsection (a) the Secretary shall give
special consideration to appliactions for proj-
ects designed to supplement and strengthen
existing community support services. The
Secretary shall give priority to approved ap-
plications for such grants In the following
order:
(1) Applications of State mental health
authorities to provide mental health and
support services in a State (A) through com-
munity mental health centers, and (B) in
areas where centers do not exist, directly or
through public or nonprofit private entities.
(2) Applications of community mental
health centers.
(3) Applications of other public and non-
profit private entities for the provision of
services in areas where community mental
health centers do not exist.
(d) For the purpose of making grants un-
der subsection (a) there are authorized to
be appropriated $32,600,000 for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 1982, $38,000,000
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1983,
and $43,000,000 for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1984.
GRANTS FOR SERVICES FOR SEVERELY MENTALLY
DIS TURBED CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS
SEC. 104. (a) The Secretary may make
grants to State mental health authorities,
community mental health centers, and other

22703



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0836.txt

22704                                   IA
public and nonprofit private entities for the
provision of mental health and support serv-
ices for severely mentally disturbed children
and adolescents and for members of their
families.
(b) An application for a grant under sub-
section (a) shall contain a plan for the pro-
vision of the mental health and support
services to be provided with the grant and
describing the priorities to be applied by the
applicant in determining which services to
offer. Such a plan shall be in accordance with
the State health plan in effect under section
1524 of the Public Health Service Act in the
State of the applicant.
(c) In making grants under subsection
(a), the Secretary shall give priority to ap-
proved applications for such grants in the
following order:
(1) Applications of State mental health
authorities to provide mental health and
support services in a State (A) through
community mental health centers, and (B)
in areas where centers do not exist, directly
or through public or nonprofit private en-
tities.
(2) Applications of community mental
health centers.
(3) Applications of other public and non-
profit private entities for the provision of
services in areas where community mental
health centers do not exist.
(d) For the purpose of making grants
under subsection (a) there are authorized
to be appropriated $7,000,000 for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 1982, $8,000,000
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1983,
and $9,000,000 for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1984.
GRANTS FOR MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES FOR
PRIORITY POPULATIONS
SEC. 105. (a) Subject to section 406, the
Secretary may make grants to any public or
nonprofit private entity for any project for
mental health services which-
(1) are designed to serve principally one
or more priority population groups in a men-
tal health service area,
(2) are available to all residents of the
area, and
(3) are provided in a mental health serv-
ice area not served by a community mental
health center.
(b) An application for a grant under sub-
section (a) may be approved only if-
(1) the State mental health authority for
the State In which the project to be assisted
by the grant is located has recommended
that the Secretary approve the application;
(2) the application contains satisfactory
assurances that the project for which the
application is made will lead to increased or
more appropriate mental health services for
a priority population group or to the devel-
opment of mental health services for such a
group;
(3) the application contains satisfactory
assurances that members of the priority
population group or groups to be served by
the project have had a reasonable oppor-
tunity to comment on the proposed project
during its preparation and satisfactory as-
surances that members of the group or
groups will be afforded reasonable opportu-
nity to comment on performance under the
project; and
(4) the applicant (A) will during the first
three years that it receives a grant under
subsection (a) provide outpatient mental
health services and any two of the following
mental health services determined to be of
the greatest need for the priority population
to be served by the applicant: inpatient
services, screening, followup, consultation
and education, and emergency, and (B) has
a plan satisfactory to the Secretary for the
provision of all the mental health services
described in claupe (A) upon the expiration
of the first three years that it receives a
grant under subsection (a).

)NGRESSIONAL RECORD-HO
(c) In any fiscal year not more than two
grants may be made under subsection (a)
for one mental health service area and the
total number of grants that may be made to
such an area under subsection (a) may not
exceed ten. Not more than five grants may
be made under subsection (a) to the same
