their aspirations for the recovery of their
freedom and independence; Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled, that the President
of the United States is authorized and re-
quested to issue a proclamation designating
the third week in July 1959 as "Captive Na-
tions Week" and inviting the people of the
United States to observe such week with ap-
propriate ceremonies and activities. The
President is further authorized and request-
ed to issue a similar proclamation each year
until such time as freedom and indepen-
dence shall have been achieved for all the
captive nations of the world.
[From News-World, New York, N.Y., July
13, 1980]
CAPTIVE NATIONS WEEK: TIME FOR
RECOMMITMENT
(By Bui Anh Tuan)
Once   again, Captive   Nations   Week
(CNW)-July 13-19-is upon us.
Twenty-one years ago, by unanimous vote,
Congress established the third week of July
as CNW in an effort to focus world atten-
tion on the real imperialistic nature of the
Soviet Union, and to emphasize continued,
unwavering U.S. commitment to the princi-
ple of universal freedom and unalienable
human rights. Since then and through 10
Congresses, not only presidents but gover-
nors, mayors and state legislatures have
issued CNW proclamations.
The annual ritual has not changed. Be-
cause of election year pressures and the
Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, there is less
equivocality and even more resolve. It ap-
pears, however, that this strong display of
vocal support is not able to dispel lingering
doubts and concern. Instead of hope-the
glimmering  hope kindled   by   President
Dwight Eisenhower's 1959 CNW proclama-
tion, pointing a finger at the Kremlin as
"the tyrant"-CNW is being observed with
mixed feelings throughout the land.
Proclamations have been issued for the
simple reason that this was required by law.
Public Law 86-90 clearly states that the
president is "requested" to issue a CNW
proclamation each year "until such time as

August 28, 1980
freedom and independence shall have been
achieved for all the captive nations of the
world."
Thus, it is not difficult to understand why
for three years in a row President Carter's
CNW proclamations included no reference
to communist imperialism or to the Soviet
Union as the only remaining colonial power
which enslaves hundreds of millions of
people. In 1977, adding insult to injury,
Carter almost failed to issue a proclamation.
CARTER NOT ALONE
Nevertheless, it is not fair to shift all the
blame on Carter. Declarations by President
Johnson and Nixon were nothing more than
administrative formality. President Ford
once went as far as to recognize Soviet rule
over Eastern Europe as an irreversible fact
of history. As secretary of state, Henry Kis-
singer had equated the Captive Nations law
with "cold war relic."
All these aberrations have turned CNW
into one of the most celebrated anachro-
nisms in modern times: On the one hand,
our luminaries have complied with the law,
but on the other, they have tried their best
to stray as far as possible from its lofty
spirit. The need to do what the other party
has not done or to make a hit with an influ-
ential constituency has given rise to such
abnormalities as detente, the East-West
bridge building concept and the attempt to
ridicule our "inconsiderate fear of commu-
nism."
Furthermore, the CNW law was conceived
at a time when the plight of Eastern and
Central European countries especially non-
Russian peoples within the U.S.S.R., was
still the dominant element. Ethnic preva-
lence has inevitably led to a geographical
tendency-which fortunately, has shown
signs of receding-to lump Czarist Russian
imperialism  together  with   present-day
Soviet communist expansionism. This selec-
tiveness, although justified, is not compati-
ble with world realities, and more impor-
tantly, with the advent of the Russian-in-
spired human rights movement behind the
Iron Curtain with such prestigious mentors
as Andrei Sakharov.
Communist imperialism is no longer ex-
clusively Caucasian, let alone Russian. It is
also yellow. And black. Jesus Christ did not
hail from the Vatican, capital of world Ca-
tholicism. In India, the home of Buddha,
Buddhism has become a minority religion.
Thus, the best way to commemorate CNW is
to make a distinction between Soviet imperi-
alism and Russia.
More significant than geographical color-
ation is the saddening fact that proclama-
tions and celebrations alone could not turn
the tide in the battle against communism.
In 1959, there were 22 captive nations. Now,
there are 30 of them. It is irrelevant, even
cynical, to proclaim support for captive peo-
ples and at the same time to sell them and
their still-free friends down the river. Be-
cause of budget curbs, Radio-Free Europe,
Radio Liberty and VOA have cut down pro-
grams intended for captive listeners in the
Soviet Union and Asia. But the same budget
curbs have not prevented communist dicta-
tors from Moscow to Managua from receiv-
ing U.S. taxpayer money.
WHO'S NEXT?
In 1960, after Cuba many asked, who's
next? The same question was raised in 1975.
Now, we have Afghanistan, Taraki, Amin
and Karmal are a strong reminder that com-
munism will stop at nothing in its effort to
enslave the world.
Alarmed, Americans have resigned to be-
lieving that a militarily vigorous America
may work miracles. Yet, Soviet troops were
not in Havana when Castro took power. Cas-



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0661.txt

August 28, 1980
tro's master was in Moscow, but his real
allies and friends were in the United States.
Thus, the best way to commemorate CNW
this week is to zero in on those Americans
who continue to weaken our security and In-
telligence; who help communism with U.S.
money   and  technology; and   who  use
"human rights" as a pretext to throw our
allies to the wolves.
[From the Enquirer, Cincinnati, Ohio, July
22, 1980]
CAPTIVE NATIONS DON'T WANT To BE CALLED
RUSSIAN
(By Ben L. Kaufman)
Don't call Andrew   Zaplatynsky, Igna s
Dudrys or Lew Melnyk "Russian."
Their homelands are unwilling republics
in the USSR and they are not Russians and
never will be.
They are the survivors of Russian occupa-
tion and the descendants of survivors.
They are Ukrainians and Lithuanians, and
their cause with Estonians and Latvians is
national and cultural survival under Soviet
oppression and American insensitivity.
"We have an identity problem," Andrew
Zaplatynsky, secretary of the new Joint
Committee of Soviet Occupied Nations, said
Monday. "People lump us all together as
'Russian.'"
Organized this year, the joint committee
includes the Estonian Association of Cincin-
nati, the Latvian Group of Cincinnati, the
Greater Cincinnati Lithuanian Council and
the Ukrainian Society of Greater Cincin-
nati.
"Anyone who identifies himself or herself
as a member of a national group is wel-
come," Zaplatynsky said.
Their "captive nations" cause and cultures
are being celebrated this week in a display
at the downtown public library.
The goal is public education about resist-
ance to Russian "cultural genocide" and re-
pression of Baltic and Ukrainian national-
ism.
That they often are considered Russians
is a victory for Soviet propaganda which
strives to equate every national group
within the USSR with Russia, although
most are not, Zaplatynsky said.
As a result, "We have the same problem
that the Jews face, survival as a cultural,
national group. They are faced with possible
extinction; we are faced with possible ex-
tinction."
But anytime Westerners distinguish be-
tween Russians and others under Soviet
control, "the Soviets frown on it and we're
very happy with it..."
Eight nations, including the Ukraine,
came under Soviet domination in 1920; the
Baltic States went under in 1940 and the
problem is as fresh as Afghanistan.
But nationalism  survives despite the
carrot-and-stick of Soviet promises and re-
pression.
This is clear from   continued  unrest
behind the Iron Curtain and underground
literature and stories of dissidents in the li-
brary display.
Ignas Dudrys, chairman of the joint com-
mittee, said the display seeks to acquaint
Cincinnatians with what the Russians are
doing "You have to do something about it if
you acknowledge a problem."
Nationalists still hope for freedom from
Russian rule, and today they concentrate on
keeping "heat and pressure" on the Rus-
sians for abridgments of the Soviet Consti-
tution, United Nation's Charter and Helsin-
ki human rights agreements.
"We have no illusions that there will be a
Popular uprising next year," Zaplatynsky
said.

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
And while trying to avoid the image of
Cold War, right-wing crazies, he said, the
nationalists want Western democracies to be
more "vigilant about the aims and goals of
the Soviet Union."
The Allies are in "grave peril," Zapla-
tynsky said, citing recent Soviet moves and
President Carter's admission that "misun-
derstandings" led him to underestimate
Russian aggressiveness.
There is a "direct connection" between oc-
cupying the Ukraine in 1920 and modern
moves into Afghanistan. Zaplatynsky said.
That it took 60 years is no proof that Rus-
sian policies have changed.
On the positive side, Zaplatynsky said the
new Cincinnati joint committee is "novel"
because most captive-nation groups else-
where pursue their goals without close co-
operation.
"We have really enjoyed working togeth-.
er," he said. "We fino that we learn a lot
from each other. We have already achieved
so much more in a few months than I could
ever have imagined."
The   committee distinguishes between
such nations as Poland and Hungary, where
national identity survives under Communist
rule, and the three Baltic States and the
Ukraine where Kremlin leaders are in direct
control and pursuing "cultural genocide" or
"Russification."
Nations absorbed into the USSR by the
Russians "have to fight for the right to na-
tional identity," Melnyk, head   of the
Ukrainian Society, explained.
Zaplatynsky said the joint committee's ap-
proach  probably will not be    "protest
marches and flag-waving . . . By tempera-
ment, we're not inclined to sensationalism."
Another restraint is fear.
Threatened retribution against family
members in the USSR often forces them to
repress their "seething resentment" against
the Russians, he said.
And in nationalist groups larger than Cin-
cinnati's, Zaplatynsky said, there always is
the fear of informers. "Something I am sus-
picious of is the super-super patriot." He
said there may be 400 members of the four
groups in the new joint committee.
A DEADLY GAME OF POLITICS
HON. ROBERT H. MICHEL
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, August 28, 1980
e Mr. MICHEL. Mr. Speaker, the
Carter administration has apparently
decided to throw caution to the wind
and engage in one of the most deadly
games ever played in election year
politics. It is a desperate attempt to
win the political prize at the risk of
giving away the national security in
the process.
President Carter has forced into his
lineup of surrogate speakers, to defend
his indefensible record, a group of in-
dividuals who have no business on the
campaign trail.
Among them, Secretary of State
Muskie, Ambassador to the People's
Republic of China Woodstock, Secre-
tary of Defense Brown, and National
Security Adviser Brzezinski.
Apparently, President Carter does
not distinguish between partisan poli-

23755
tics and the functions of Government.
To him they are one and the same,
even when our national security and
our foreign alliances are on the line.
To him government exists to serve his
political ends, when for centuries we
have   always   insisted  that  politics
should serve the ends of government.
This is not a matter of Cabinet offi-
cers defending the record of their ad-
ministration. This is a matter of Cabi-
net officers going full tilt into the
fray, citing rumor as fact, distorting
figures and using the respectability of
Government, or what's left of it, as an
expendable tool of the reelection cam-
paign, however, and whenever it serves
political purposes.
A vivid example of this gross abuse
of power was provided recently in a
newspaper article written by someone
who knows what he is talking about,
former    Defense   Secretary   Melvin
Laird.
Former Secretary Laird understood
the sensitivity of his office and knew
better than to play fast and loose with
defense matters, for the sake of politi-
cal gain. His comments appeared in
the August 17 issue of the Washington
Post and I insert the article "Defense
Secretaries Shouldn't Play Politics,"
at this point in the RECORD:
DEFENSE SECRETARIES SHOULDN'T PLAY
POLITICS
Four years ago, as a candidate, Jimmy
Carter lambasted Republican defense plan-
ning and urged massive cuts in expenditures
for the armed forces. He said multi-billion-
dollar cuts were desirable, particularly in
the personnel area. He was wrong then, and
there's much wrong and misleading about
current Democratic proclamation on de-
fense issues.
With November approaching, the Carter
administration has become increasingly stri-
dent in its criticism of the defense programs
of the Nixon and Ford administrations. To
hear the president, Zbigniew Brzezinski and
Secretary of Defense Harold Brown tell it,
their Republican predecessors let the de-
fense budget fall sharply between 1969 and
1976, while the Carter administration, it is
argued, has increased it substantially.
These partisan remarks allege that the
Republicans were responsible for the pres-
ent sorry state of our defenses, and were it
not for Jimmy Carter and his national secu-
rity team, things would be even worse. As
Secretary Brown told it on the "Today"
show in early July, defense spending fell by
more than 35 percent during those years of
Republican stewardship, while during the
first four years of the Carter administration
it rose 10 percent and will increase by more
than 25 percent during a second Carter ad-
ministration.
Brown's politically oriented assessment is
distorted and cannot be substantiated by
the facts. Moreover, by insisting that the
secretary of defense become involved in
campaign rhetoric, the administration risks
politicizing an office that throughout its 35
years of existence has essentially remained
above the political fray.
When I served at the Pentagon, I took the
position that the secretary of defense
should stay out of partisan politics, but
always had the public responsibility of set-
ting the record straight on defense issues.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0662.txt

23756
As a private citizen, I still believe that is the
correct procedure. Here, then, are the facts:
From FY71 through FY78, the Republi-
cans submitted budgets to the Democratic-
ally-controlled Congress that increased de-
fense budget authority from $71 billion to
$115 billion, an increase of 62 percent. Meas-
ured in today's inflated dollars, however,
that represents a decline from $140.5 billion
in FY71 to $131.8 billion in FY78, a drop of
6 percent, not the 35 percent claimed by
Brown. He ignores the fact that when Re-
publicans took over the executive responsi-
bilities of government in 1969, 37 percent of
the defense budget was consumed by ex-
penditures for an unpopular war in South-
east Asia. In today's dollars, that war was
costing almost $70 billion a decade ago. The
real decline in what is called the baseline
budget is substantially less because $14.7
billion of the FY71 budget, or 20 percent,
was spent on the war in Vietnam and bring-
ing about the termination of U.S. involve-
ment.
In today's dollars, the FY71 baseline
budget was actually $118.6 billion; this is'
$20.6 billion or 17 percent less in real terms
than President Ford's last proposal to Con-
gress. During the FY71 to FY78 period, it
must be noted, Congress cut more than $40
billion from the defense requests of Repub-
lican administrations, primarily in the in-
vestment area. For example, Nixon and
Ford requested authority to build 171 ships,
but Congress voted funds for only 130. Were
it not for those Democractic reductions,
eight years of Republican leadership in the
White House would have led to real growth
of almost 2 percent per year.
On the other side of the defense coin,
Brown's claims about real increases in this
administration are inflated. If one compares
Carter's request for FY81 with the amount
he requested three years ago, when he set
out to slash defense spending, the real
growth is about $5 billion, or 3 percent, not
10 percent. In contrast to its previous be-
havior, Congress has been urging the presi-
dent to spend more for defense to correct
deficiencies that have occurred during the
past three years, notably with regard to at-
tracting and retaining outstanding young
men and women for military service.
If it has not been for Carter's veto of the
FY79 authorization bill and his lobbying ef-
forts against proposed increases in the de-
fense budget, the real growth might have
been closer to the 10 percent that Secretary
Brown proclaims. Finally, of course, the in-
ternational situation that has existed since
Carter took office is much less favorable
than that which existed during the Republi-
can years. Those years saw more restraint
by the Soviets.
In my view, the really unfortunate aspect
of this unseemly episode in Department of
Defense history is that Secretary Brown has
chosen to become or has been pressured
into becoming involved on the political bat-
tlefront. It is one thing for a president run-
ning for reelection to play games with de-
fense numbers. It is quite another thing for
a secretary of defense, who knows better, to
lend the essential non-partisan quality of
his office to political distortions.
If defense continues to be an issue in the
1980 campaign, as I believe it will, the secre-
tary of defense, I hope, will heed the advice
of Winston Churchill, which the secretary
quoted in his most recent report to Con-
gress: "You cannot ask us to take sides
against arithmetic. You cannot ask us to
take sides against the obvious facts of the
situation." *

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
TRIBUTE TO DR. WAYNE
McCALL
HON. BILL CHAPPELL, JR.
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, August 28, 1980
* Mr. CHAPPELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in tribute to a dear friend, Dr.
Wayne McCall, of Ocala, Fla. Wayne
was a dedicated and intensely patriotic
American, a strong supporter of youth
athletics, and a devoted and energetic
public servant. His recent death was a
shock to his family and friends and all
who knew him.
As the State representative of dis-
trict 32 in Florida, Wayne McCall was
a fiscal conservative and a man who
truly cared about his constituents and
their needs. Dedicated and responsive,
Wayne always urged his constituents
who had a problem to pick up the
phone and call him rather than send
letters. A quiet-spoken man, Wayne
truly listened when people spoke and
in his careful and kind way gave assist-
ance.
On the political side, he was a strong
supporter of the two-party system and
would annually sponsor a fundraiser
at his lake camp in the Ocala National
Forest to benefit local Democratic can-
didates.
A family man and community boost-
er, Wayne had seven sons who all par-
ticipated in high school sports pro-
grams. He, himself, presided over the
local booster club to raise funds for
youth athletics.
A dentist, Wayne was a member of
the dental society. He also served as a
director on the National Governor's
Board of College and Universities and
served long and with distinction as a
member of the board of regents.
All of us who knew Wayne-those of
us who worked with him over the
years, and the people of the 32d dis-
trict who were recipients of his calm
and  responsive  service-will sorely
miss him. We have lost a great friend
and the community of Ocala has lost
an outstanding public servant. On
behalf of the Fourth Congressional
District, and all who knew him, I offer
our expression of deep sorrow and
sympathy to Dr. McCall's family.
He was my dear friend. I shall sorely
miss his wise and devoted counsel. In
remembrance, I have caused to be
flown over the Capitol a flag in his
honor.*
THE   CARTER     ADMINISTRATION
RESORTS TO THE POLITICS OF
HYSTERIA, AND        THE   FACTS
BEHIND GOVERNOR REAGAN'S
APPEAL TO LABOR
HON. JACK F. KEMP
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, August 28, 1980
* Mr. KEMP. Mr. Speaker, in this,
the week before Labor Day, the Carter

August 28, 1980
administration has launched a vitriolic
campaign against his Repulican chal-
lenger, Gov. Ronald Reagan; that is,
deliberately distorting the Governor's
labor positions in an attempt to fright-
en voters away from the Republican
ticket. The President's pollsters have
apparently  decided  that President
Carter's dismal labor record cannot
stand on its own, so any administra-
tion campaign rhetoric must be con-
centrated on smearing the Republican
candidate with lies and emotional dia-
tribes.
Mr. Speaker, the American people
are too smart for that. This election
year, they are not looking for the best
muckraking candidate. They are look-
ing for a leader with the issues to
bring them out of this deepening re-
cession with hope and opportunity for
the future.
The administration's strategy was
brought to my attention by a speech
that Vice President Walter Mondale
gave before the New York State AFL-
CIO. In that speech, according to the
Buffalo Evening News, the Vice Presi-
dent stated that "Reagan favors bust-
ing  up  the American     trade-union
movement." In the same speech, the
Vice  President   accused   Governor
Reagan of wanting to trash the social
security system, "union security," and
the Occupational Safety and Health
Act. Mr. Mondale continued to accuse
the Republican Party of hating the
working men and women of America,
and offered as a Carter defense the
contention that "his administration
has -put more persons to work in 4
years than any administration in his-
tory."
Let us examine the facts.
In the first place, Ronald Reagan
was elected president of his union, the
Screen Actors Guild, six times, where
he led its first strike. As far as I know,
Ronald Reagan is the first union presi-
dent ever to be a candidate for Presi-
dent of the United States. As one who
knows what it is like to bargain from
labor's side of the negotiating table,
Governor Reagan strongly supports
the collective bargaining system free
from     Government     intervention.
Claims to the contrary by would-be de-
tractors are obviously attempts to dis-
tort the facts.
And let us look at the employment
picture that Vice President Mondale
so virtuously described. When Presi-
dent Carter took office in January
1977, the unemployment rate stood at
7.3 percent. There    were 6,958,000
Americans unemployed at that time.
Now, as of July 1980, the latest figures
available, the  unemployment rate
stands at 7.8 percent, with 8,207,000
Americans   unemployed-almost     1
million  more   unemployed   working
men and women in the work force
than when he took office.
And where did most of this unem-
ployment come from? From layoffs in
the most heavily unionized industries
in the country-the auto, steel, rubber,



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0663.txt

August 28, 1980
and maritime industries. Hundreds of
thousands of workers have been laid
off here-workers who have little hope
that their factories will reopen in the
near future. Surely Carter cannot
claim that this has made him a friend
of labor.
Or take the President's Council on
Wage and Price Stability. This is an
agency created by President Carter
that believes labor's wages should be
frozen at 7 to 81/2 percent while the
Democrat-led   Government    devalues
their paychecks 'by 13 to 15 percent.
The   administration   that  supports
these policies cannot believe in render-
ing a fair wage for an honest day's
work. That administration is no friend
of labor.
Let us take a look at some of Vice
President Mondale's other claims.
The so called radical statement of
Governor Reagan regarding social se-
curity on January 31 of this year was:
The Social Security System must be re-
formed to guarantee that those depending
on Social Security, and those looking for-
ward to its protection in the years ahead,
will continue to receive their payments, and
that their payments will keep pace with the
cost of living * * * such reform cannot come
from  increasing the already exorbitant
taxes paid by workers to finance the system
* * * the final answer, however, must be fis-
cally sound on a long-range basis.
Do you hear a attack on the social
security system here? Not at all;
Ronald Reagan's strategy for econom-
ic growth will save social security.
As   to  OSHA, Governor     Reagan
clearly is not calling for the disman-
tling of the Agency. He strongly feels
that the way OSHA has been run has
resulted in harassment and nitpicking
to the detriment of real workplace
safety. That this is true is obvious
when one reads statistics verifying the
increase in industrial accidents in this
country since OSHA was enacted. As
President, Governor Reagan would re-
focus on the real objectives of the
OSHA Act rather than permit a per-
petuation of the badgering and abuses
which have been so counterproductive
to its intent in recent years.
The bottom line is Governor Rea-
gan's concern for the working men
and women of America. The Demo-
crats are now divided as to whether
they want to stand for low unemploy-
ment and high inflation-Ted Kenne-
dy-or low inflation with high unem-
ployment-President Carter. Governor
Reagan recognizes that surely the ex-
perience of the past decade is that
such choices are unnecessary.
The combination of inflation and
progressive tax rates has continuously
widened the gap between what an em-
ployer pays and what a worker takes
home. Inflation and the outdated tax
code automatically raise the tax on
profits, and at the same time this com-
bination  pushes   the   worker   into
higher tax brackets. Across-the-board
tax rate reduction, such as Governor
Reagan has proposed for both individ-
uals and businesses, can increase the

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
aftertax incentives for both workers
and businessmen by narrowing the
Government's wedge between them.
Governor Reagan plans to bring
labor and capital together with a
sound   monetary   policy. President
Carter's whole inflation program has
been based on the premise that infla-
tion is caused by workers and business-
men, by consumers and producers.
The wage guidelines explicitly blame
inflation on workers' wage demands,
just as 2 years ago, the administration
blamed inflation on business profits.
But Governor Reagan believes that in-
flation can only be caused by the Gov-
ernment.
Inflation is a decline in the value of
the currency produced by Govern-
ment. It is caused by a combination of
too much money and too little produc-
tion. The answer, therefore, is not to
blame workers and businesses for in-
flation, or to slap on wage and price
controls as a solution. The answer to
inflation is to print less money and to
restore incentives for higher employ-
ment and production.
The administration cannot match
this vision for the 1980's, because
President Carter says he will not
change his basic economic policies.
This time, it is President Carter who
has triggered a recession, and Gover-
nor Reagan who offers a plan for pros-
perity.
It is time for American labor and the
American people to recognize that
they share a growing consensus of
values with Governor Reagan about
family, community, and country. It
was because of Ronald Reagan that
the Republican Party adopted a plat-
form which states:
We reaffirm our commitment to the fun-
damental principle of fairness in labor rela-
tions, including the legal right of unions to
organize workers and to represent them
through collective bargaining consistent
with state laws and free from unnecessary
government involvement.
It was because of Ronald Reagan's
leadership that the 1980 Republican
platform's section on "Fairness to the
Worker" begins:
The Republican Party is committed to full
employment without inflation. We will seek
to provide more jobs, increase the standard
of living, and ensure equitable treatment on
the job for all American workers by stimu-
lating economic growth.
This year the working men and
women of America will have a real
choice-a choice between a President
who has brought this Nation to its
knees and abandoned his commitment
to labor, and a candidate who knows
what it is like to run a union, and to
fight for the rights of workers. Gover-
nor Reagan offers a clear opportunity
for the working people of America to
choose jobs over unemployment, pros-
perity over recession, and hope over
despair.
It is a choice over America's future.
And the facts bear out that in this
election, the true friend of labor is
Gov. Ronald Reagan.e

23757
THE ECONOMIC LIBERALS: IRO-
NIES   OF    MANDATORY        CON-
TROLS
HON. JOHN EDWARD PORTER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, August 28, 1980
* Mr. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, many
of the economic liberals have proposed
mandatory wage and price controls as
the solution for our inflationary woes.
There are many ironies in their
taking this stance.
First, these economic liberals are
those who pride themselves in the pro-
tection  of individual liberties-the
rights of the individual vis-a-vis the
State-as I do. But here they are,
saying that the individual choices of
working men and women to seek
higher wages and of individual busi-
ness people to ask higher prices-in
each case made necessary as a re-
sponse to   the inflationary  flames
fanned by the failure for so long a
time for Congress to act with even a
small measure of fiscal responsibility-
ought to be denied. This anomaly of
commitment to some individual rights
and not to others by those who call
themselves liberal is nothing new, but
it is always fascinating.
Second, there is great irony in the
fact that these economic liberals, who
have consistently put themselves for-
ward as deep thinkers on economic
questions, have chosen to champion
the ham-handed approach of manda-
tory controls. It evidences not econom-
ic intellectualism, but a total surren-
der of policy-a bankruptcy of innova-
tive thinking-that most liberals nor-
mally would not admit to. Perhaps we
have reached    that point. Perhaps
nothing else is, in fact, left to do. But
it is interesting that the economic lib-
erals are the first to give up and admit
that their cupboard of ideas is abso-
lutely bare.
Third, many of these economic liber-
als have prided themselves on being
students of history. Yet few Ameri-
cans would dispute that the history of
the mandatory controls that the liber-
als propose is one of failure-that they
don't work but merely create black
markets and excessive and costly bu-
reaucracies and when they are lifted,
as after World War II and in the
Nixon    administration-the     most
recent examples-prices shoot up even
higher than they would have without
the controls. It is ironic that these stu-
dents of history ignore history.
The final irony, however, is the most
profound. It is the irony that the real
culprit in the raging inflation that we
are now experiencing is not the wage
earner trying to keep up with rising
costs by asking higher pay, nor is it
the businessman adjusting his prices
to reflect higher costs, both of whom
mandatory controls are aimed to re-
strain. Rather, the culprit is the ac-
tions of these same economic liberals
in the Congress, voting more and more



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0664.txt

23758
Federal spending year after year,
spending far beyond available rev-
enues, until after almost 26 years of
this fiscal recklessness the average
American family faces a double-digit
inflationary tax on top of all the other
taxes they pay. Those who have
caused  the  problem-though    they
don't even seem to recognize their own
complicity-now say they have the so-
lution-mandatory   wage   and  price
controls-a bankrupt, end-of-the-line
policy from those who pride them-
selves on their intellectual approaches,
a policy that denies individual liberties
from those who pride themselves on
protecting them, a policy that history
shows has always been a failure from
those who call themselves historians.
And those who promote it are the very
ones who created the problem it seeks
to solve in the first place through
their unending spending and fiscal ir-
responsibility. What ironies.o
QUESTIONNAIRE
HON. JAMES T. BROYHILL
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, August 28, 1980
o Mr. BROYHILL. Mr. Speaker, each
year, I actively solicit the views of my
constituents by sending out a ques-
tionnaire to every household in the
10th Congressional District of North
Carolina. The response this year has
been good: Approximately 13,500 per-
sons have shared their opinions with
me, and the responses are still trick-
ling in.
The answers to the specific ques-
tions have been helpful to me, but
even more enlightening have been the
comments which many have taken the
time to write on the bottom of the
form or in separate letters. Of particu-
lar interest to me were the respond-
ents who wanted to know my position
on each of the questions.
The most one-sided response came
on the question of whether or not
social security  benefits should  be
taxed. Ninety-five percent oppose this
unwise proposal. This is consistent
with my belief, and as many of my col-
leagues are aware, I have cosponsored
legislation to keep the proposal to tax
social security benefits from being en-
acted. Hopefully, the issue is dead for
this session.
Two changes in our Constitution
were opposed by a majority of my con-
stituents. The idea of limiting the
Presidency to one 6-year term instead
of two 4-year terms was opposed by 60
percent, with 38 percent in favor of
the change and 2 percent undecided.
With respect to the number of terms
for a Member of Congress, 46 percent
wanted to limit the service of congres-
sional officeholders and 51 percent op-
posed this change in the Constitution.
Frankly, I feel that we need more dis-
cussion of this issue. I am concerned
that we are getting away from the tra-

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
ditional concept of citizen representa-
tion and moving toward full-time, pro-
fessional representation. I am sure
this is the proper direction and per-
haps a change in the Constitution
would be the only way to correct this.
On two environmental issues, my
constituents overwhelmingly endorsed
the further development of nuclear
powerplants and the easing of Govern-
ment regulations so that we could
insure a greater use of coal to meet
our energy needs. The use of nuclear
power received a 68-percent approval,
while a wider use of coal garnered an
overwhelming 77-percent support. Per-
sonally, I favor continued use of nucle-
ar power with a concurrent strong em-
phasis on safety. I agree with my con-
stituents and support the greater use
of coal to meet both current and
future energy need.
The creation of a national health in-
surance program to help pay the costs
associated with catastrophic illnesses
only was opposed by 58 percent and
supported by 39 percent of my con-
stituents. I oppose and will continue to
oppose the administration's compre-
hensive, mandatory national health
insurance proposal because of its ex-
tremely high price tag and resultant
burden to the taxpayers. However, I
am a cosponsor of the Medical Ex-
pense Protection Act (MEPA), an al-
ternative proposal to provide help for
