
No. 205]
Buckley, N. Y.
Bulwinkle
Byrne, N. Y.
Caldwell
Cannon, Fla.
Celler

Chapman
Collins
Connery
Corbett
Costello
Culkin

Cullen
Darrow
Delaney
Dempsey
Dies
Dingell
Dlrksen
Disney
Ditter
Douglas
Drewry
Duncan
Eaton
Elliott
Ellis
Engel
Evans
Ferguson
Fernandez
Fish
Flaherty
Flannagan
Ford, Miss.
Ford, Thomas F.
Fulmer

Garrett
Gifford
Gore
Guyer, Kans.
Hall Edwin A.
Halleck
Harness
Hart
Harter, Ohio
Hartley
Healey
Hook
Hope
Hunter
Jennings
Johnson, Ind.
Johnson, Okla.
Jones, Tex.
Kee
Keller
Kelly
Kennedy, Martin
Keogh
Kilburn
Lambertson

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

The SPEAKER pro tempore. On this roll call 306 Mem-
bers have answered to their names. A quorum is present.
.On motion of Mr. LEWIS of Colorado, further proceedings
under the call were dispensed with.
WOOL FABRICS LABELING
Mr. REES of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, continuing where I
left off, do you not think that the large and substantial group
of men and women engaged in the great industry of produc-
ing wool in this country is entitled to the fair protection
afforded under the terms of this legislation? They are will-
ing to meet competition when that competition is fair and
square, open, and aboveboard. But they should not be re-
quired to meet competition of any individual or group of
individuals who sell imitations and substitutes of their own
products in the name of the genuine article. In fairness and
decency to the great wool-producing industry of this country
this measure ought to be enacted into law.
Labor wants this measure. Unfair competition by reason
of the importations have been described. Furthermore, de-
pendable merchandise manufactured by organized labor, is
sold in unfair competition with shoddy products, made by
cheap labor.
Mr. J. R. Mohler, Chief of the Bureau of Animal Industry
of the United States Department of Agriculture, testified that
his department can determine the presence of reworked wool
or shoddy in fabrics and garments, and that the percentage
of virgin wool can be pretty closely determined. He also testi-
fied they can detect the percentage of rayon or other synthetic
fibers.
Not only that, Mr. Speaker, but is it not rather absurd to
say that the manufacturer who works up the raw product
into clothing and other material, cannot label that merchan-
dise and tell the buyer what is in it? As a matter of fact,
many of our responsible clothing manufacturers require this
information now. Why not pass that information on to the
consumer?
Mr. Speaker, this law is enforceable. To say that it is
not, because of technical reasons, is in my judgment without
factual foundation. The objectives of this law are right.
The provisions for its operation are sound and practical.
When any law is fundamentally right in principle, and has
for its objective the protection of our people, we should not
postpone its enactment because of unfounded arguments that
it cannot be enforced. [Applause.]
Mr. MICHENER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the
gentleman from Pennsylvania [Mr. RICH.]
Mr. RICH. Mr. Speaker, when I first came to Congress
in 1930 my aim and object was to introduce what has been
termed heretofore a "truth in fabrics" act. I want to preface
these remarks by stating that I am a woolen manufacturer.
I have been in the business all my business life. That is
the principal business in which I am interested. I say this
because anything I may have to say on this bill does not
come about because of the fact that I wish to protect my own
particular business in any way. I have been sent here to look
after the business of the people of this country and have.

11315
Larrabee          Sacks
Lemke             Satterfield
Luce              Schaefer, Ill.
McGranery         Schiffier
McLean            Schwert
McMillan, Clara   Sheridan
McMillan, John L. Short
Marcantonlo       Simpson
Martin, Ill.      Smith, Ill.
Martin, Mass.     Somers, N. Y.
Mason             Starnes, Ala.
Miller            Sullivan
Mitchell          Sweeney
Murdock, Utah     Terry
Myers             Thomas, N. J.
Nelson            Treadway
Norton            Vinson, Ga.
O'Day             Vreeland
Oliver            Wadsworth
Osmers            Wallgren
Pfeifer           White, Ohio
Plumley           Winter
Reed, N. Y.       Wolfenden, Pa.
Risk "            Wood
Rockefeller



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0856.txt

11316                                 CONGRESSIONAL
tried to do that fearlessly ever since I have been here. I
expect to do it on this particular bill.
Mr. WOLVERTON of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. RICH. I yield to the gentleman from          New Jersey.
Mr. WOLVERTON of New Jersey. Is it the intention of
the gentleman to make clear that he manufactures virgin
wool?
Mr. RICH. We have two plants. In one plant we are now
using 100-percent virgin wool. In the other plant we use
wool and wool substitutes, which are all-wool products.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to Insert in             the
RECORD at this point the minority views on this bill.
The SPEAKER        pro tempore. Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman from Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
The matter referred to follows:
INORITY VIEWS TO ACCOMPANY H. R. 944
The undersigned members of the Committee on Interstate and
Foreign Commerce of the House of Representatives believe that
H. R. 944 should not be recommended to the House, holding that it
is unnecessary and undesirable regulatory legislation which cannot
possibly achieve its avowed objectives. The folly of the label pro-
visions of this bill are evident. A label on your socks carrying the
percentage of each different fiber that goes into it, on your tie, your
underwear, your hat; garments such as a suit would require a
minimum of 7 labels. All of these labels would start Out with
the manufacturer and would have to be replaced in turn by every
subsequent handler of the product, and the percentages would vary
according to the weight of the various materials that were comblied
into a finished product. The sponsors of the measure would saddle
this great burden on the industries to give the ultimate purchaser
a label which would be meaningless and misleading. The label does
not tell how long the garment will last. It does not tell the abrasion
trength, the color fastness, the shrinkage, the tensile strength of
le fiber, the length or quality of the fiber, the Insulation value of
the fabric against heat or cold, the workmanship in the garment, the
strength in the weave of the cloth, or any of the many things which
would be helpful to a purchaser. Instead, it arbitrarily divides
wool fiber Into two classes and places a label of apparent superiority
on seedy wool, burry wool, dead wool, vat wool, shank wool, tags,
etc., which range in price from 3 to 15 cents a pound, which utterly
refutes their labeled claim of superiority. At the same time, the
bill compels the labeling of slubbing, laps, rovings, thread waste,
and card fly wool as reworked (they are all new wool in the process
of manufacture) though they are today selling on the market at
10 times the price per pound as the virgin wool previously listed.
o The sponsors of this bill maintain that it is designed to cure the
manifest evils of misrepresentation which exist in the sale of articles
of apparel. These evils are being curbed and gradually cured by the
Federal Trade Commission, which is issuing "cease and desist orders"
In all cases of misrepresentation brought to its attention. The
sponsors of this bill, however, insist that there are other misrepre-
sentation practices with which the Federal Trade Commission is not
able to deal. It is obvious that if such further misrepresentation
does exist the Federal Trade Commission Is fully able to deal with
it, since it is specifically given such power. But it is further ob-
vious from a study of the record of the hearings that the sole type
of misrepresentation which has been shown to exist is the type
with which the Commission is already dealing, namely, the substi-
tution of cotton or rayon fiber for wool or silk without proper dis-
closure of the fact. The essence of this bill lies in the fact that It
attempts to make a distinction between wool fiber which has never
been previously processed and fiber which has been subjected to
certain manufacturing operations or, In some cases, to a certain
amount of service. There can be no question of misrepresentation
here, since there is not and cannot be a representation of the extent
to which any particular fiber has been subjected to various manu-
facturing processes. Insofar as any such representation is in part
made or implied the Federal Trade Commission is adequately em-
powered to compel truthful representation.
The question, then, is in no sense one of fraud or misrepresenta-
tion but one of possible benefit to the consumer. The alleged
benefit to the consumer lies in the attempt to confine the use of the
term "wool" to wool fiber which has never before reached the
fabric stage, hitherto referred to as "virgin wool." The promulga-
tion of such a distinction in wool products-as distinguished from
the fibers from which they are made-immediately gives an unde-
served quality status to products made of "wool" (if that term is
to be understood to mean "virgin wool") and a connotation of
definite inferiority to products made in part of "reprocessed" or
"reused" wool. The testimony indicates that the highest priced
products are usually made of new wool but likewise indicates quite
clearly that many poor products are made of new wool and many
superior products are made of reprocessed or reused wool. Were
it possible to apply the superior sounding term only to superior
products there might be something to be said for the distinction,
but the bil proposes the application of the term "wool' or "virgin

RECORD-HOUSE                                        AUGUST 30
wool" not only to quality fabrics and other quality products but
also to very inferior fabrics which happen to be made of new wool
no matter how inferior or unsuitable that wool may be or how care-
lessly or improperly It may be processesd.
It is obvious from the testimony presented that propaganda which
the proponents of the bill admit they have disseminated has already
influenced consumers to such an extent that [if this bill is enacted
into law] we can expect that those consumers will be victimized
by poorly constructed and carelessly processed materials made from
new wool of an inferior grade which, however, could technically
qualify as entitled to use a label supposedly indicating quality.
Certainly the Government should not be a party to establishing a
quality distinction between wool fibers unless the distinction Is of
such a nature that those products enjoying the quality designation
are in reality quality products. In this connection it is a matter of
prime importance to appreciate that not only is there no absolute
relation between the newness of a wool fiber and its quality but the
bill does not propose to apply the distinction to such fibers but to
fabrics manufactured therefrom. Even if all new fibers were always
superior to all reprocessed or reused fibers the same relationship
would not of necessity hold as to fabrics made from both types.
Both proponents and opponents have testified that the processes of
manufacture are of greater import in the determination of fabric
quality than is the selection of the raw material. The raw material
is naturally of substantial Import, but to imply that it is the sole
element in determining quality as is done by this bill is deception
of the very type the Federal Trade Commission is seeking diligently
to prevent.
Thus the bill not only does not prevent the only type of misrep-
resentation which various witnesses have alleged to exist, but the bill
actually provides Government sanction of a more subtle and mis-
leading type of misrepresentation by giving a quality designation to
products which do not of necessity merit such a quality rating.
This conclusion seems Inescapable from an unbiased reading of
the record. Nevertheless, even if It could be shown that there were
valid arguments for making a distinction between new wool, re-
processed wool, and reused wool, there are compelling arguments
against the passage of this bill.
Foremost among these is the fact that there is no physical or
chemical test by which the newness of fibers can be ascertained
after they have been processed and intermingled in a fabric. No
expert could analyze within reasonable limits the wool-fiber content
of finished wool-textile fabrics. If there is no discernible physical
or chemical difference between a new and a remanufactured fiber In
a fabric, there can be no possible advantage to the consumer in
stating the percentage of either which may be present.
The second administrative objection to the bill lies in the im-
possibility of enforcement except by the establishment of a policing
and enforcement agency of burdensome proportions. Since analysis
of products would not indicate compliance or lack of it, there could
be no enforcement except through a comprehensive supervision of
records. There are some 400 wool-textile mills and perhaps 400
additional establishments classified as cotton mills, hosiery, under-
wear, upholstery manufacturers, etc., who use wool fiber. This,
however, is only a beginning since the product of these mills goes
to thousands of manufacturers who make the articles into which
these wool products go, These again are distributed through hun-
dreds of thousands of separate retail establishments. To check and
follow the multitudinous products of these hundreds of mills through
these outlets would be an undertaking of the first magnitude re-
quiring a field force which would certainly aggregate several
thousands. Not even the exaggerated benefits claimed by the most
ardent supporters of this bill would justify the creation of such a
body of inspectors and investigators. This bill would in fact
encourage the "bootlegging" of inferior fibers.
Another administrative difficulty lies in the fact that we would
have no control over imported cloth and could not check the accu-
racy of the representations made by the manufacturers of imported
cloth. The records of foreign manufacturers are not available to
our agents, and It is obvious that foreign manufacturers, secure in
the knowledge that their misrepresentations could not be detected,
would claim that all their products were entitled to be labeled as
composed exclusively of new wool. This would result in unfair and
destructive competition for our own manufacturers if enforcement
here were attempted on a scale which constituted a threat to a
nonconforming domestic manufacturer or would force our own
manufacturers to misrepresent In order to meet the importer on
his own ground if enforcement proved to be the farce which we
believe it would soon become. It is most unfair to place American
manufacturers In a position where they must either cheat or see
their own markets won by foreign manufacturers who are not
obliged to observe the same standards.
The wool growers apparently desire this legislation because of
their sincere belief that it would raise the price of wool and will
thus add to their income. We are convinced this hope would not
be realized if this bill were enacted, but that the public would be
required to pay more for their clothing or rather compelled to buy
less clothing because the quantity of wool bought depend  on the
consumer's ability to buy. If a man now buys a $20 suit because
that is what he can afford to pay, you cannot legislate him into
buying $30 suits.
This bill would be injurious to the cotton producer because
100,000,000 pounds of lint cotton is used annually in the manufac-
turing of mixed fabrics. This bill would lose that market to the
cotton farmer.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0857.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

We cannot conscientiously recommend the disruption of large
and important industries, the arbitrary destruction of employers,
the consequent unemployment of labor, and the harmful misleading
of consumers on the doubtful chance that the price of wool might
fractionally increase thereby.
Mr. RICH. Mr. Speaker, I believe that the minority views
as expressed on this particular bill express my views about as
well or probably better than if I tried to express them myself.
But let us get down to the real meat of the coconut.
What is the object of this legislation? Is it to try to let
the American people know the difference between virgin wool
and reworked wool? Is that all this bill implies? Is that
the principal motive? If it is, then we are shortsighted in
what we are trying to do in this legislation. We should
amend the bill to give all the material contained in the fabric.
As I said before, I tried to work out a bill of this nature,
and spent at least 3 months, working day and night, trying to
find a way to determine so that the public would know, when
a piece of fabric was manufactured, just exactly what was
in that piece of cloth. That was my object. My object was
to try to let the American people know what was the best
kind of fabric for them to buy, so that when they bought an
article they would get one that would give them the greatest
warmth, because it contained wool, and, because of its long-
wearing qualities, and its heat-contained properties, a fabric
that would have real quality and merit for the consumer.
This was the thought I had in mind in trying to write such
a bill. But what did I find?   I found the complications in
drawing such a bill so perplexing, and the bill so difficult of
administration, that I had to give it up in despair. It was
not practical nor feasible. I went back over the records of
bills that had been introduced in years' gone by in Congress
and reports that had been filed here 20, 30, and 40 years back
on similar legislation that was proposed to the Congress.
They gave up in despair.
Mr. SOUTH. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. RICH. I yield to the gentleman from Texas.
Mr. SOUTH. It is a fact, however, that many of the lead-
ing woolen manufacturers of the country, including Botany,
Forstmann, and dozens of others, are for this particular bill.
Mr.- RICH. There are a few worsted manufacturers for a
labeling bill, and I do not know whether they are for this
particular bill or not; but let me tell you about the woolen
manufacturing business. We have the worsted business:
Anyone who manufactures worsted has to use the virgin wool
to get the roving in order that they may manufacture the
worsted fabric. They have to take virgin wool. There is
going to be an advantage to the worsted manufacturers over
the woolen manufacturers in this particular bill, and if it is
going to be for the benefit of the American public, then I
would want to see the bill passed. It will be hard to admin-
ister and may take an army to police, and it probably will
give advantage to foreign manufacturers. [Applause.]
[Here the gavel fell.]
Mr. MICHENER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the
gentleman from Michigan [Mr. CRAWFORD].
Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, first, I wish to say that
I am very much in favor of the adoption of this rule. If we
succeed in adopting the rule and getting a decent bill ready
for passage, I will be glad to support the bill. I hesitate to
say I will support this bill because the rule is wide open, and
with the division that exists here today, geographically and
as between consumers and processors, and with some 10 mem-
bers of the committee, both Republicans and Democrats, hav-
ing signed a minority report, and with the principle involved
in this bill having been more or less before the Congress for
some 15 or 20 years, I have no idea what kind of amendments
will be offered to the bill for the specific purpose of destroying
It. Therefore I hesitate to say that I will vote for the bill,
as it may be amended, when I do not know what amendments
will be adopted.
There is plenty of evidence to show that there are great
forces here today which will oppose the adoption of the rule
and the passage of the bill. I can see that. I can see that
many roll calls will be called for, perhaps,

Mr. RICH. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. CRAWFORD. I yield to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania.
Mr. RICH. I asked for one roll call, but I did so because
there were only 30, 40, or 50 Members of the House here.
This is important legislation and I want the Members here.
I did not do it because I am going to vote against this bill,
because the gentleman does not know how I am going to vote.
Mr. CRAWFORD. I certainly said nothing about how the
gentleman is going to vote.
Mr. RICH. I have not talked to any Members about how
I am going to vote. I am going to do what I think is right
when the time comes.
Mr. CRAWFORD. I certainly said nothing about how the
gentleman is going to vote, and I am sure he will use his own
good judgment, as he always does:
Mr. BOREN. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. CRAWFORD. The gentleman from Oklahoma, I
know, is very much opposed to the bill because I have been
studying very meticulously the hearings which were made
available to us many months ago, and in the hearings you
will find some very, very fine educational matter, and you
will also find out from the gentleman from Oklahoma just
how he stands on the bill.
I do not disagree with the gentleman having the right to
stand on the bill any way he pleases, so long as I can assert
my right to state my position on the bill. However, there is
a little document here that is an education on this problem.
I have had it on my desk for months, not studying it all the
time, but from day to day or week to week I read this book
and find something new every time I read it, because this
bill has to do with the technique of manufacturing and plac-
ing goods on the market for the consumer, and in every case
to the advantage of the primary producer or the advantage
of the processor or the advantage of the consumer. I sug-
gest that you keep these hearings and study them as con-
sumers or as primary producers of wool or processors of wool
or cotton or rayon or other types of goods, because the in-
formation contained in these hearings is to me thrilling. It
shows further romance in American industry.
I hope this bill will remain substantially in its present
form, and I hope the rule will be adopted and that in due
course we will pass this bill in the form here prbsented and
that it will become the law of the land. [Applause.]
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. LEWIS of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I yield 6 minutes to
the gentleman from Oklahoma [Mr. BOREa].
Mr. BOREN. Mr. Speaker, let me say at the outset that
I am determined that this bill will not go through without
some consideration by the House. There is only one reason
that this bill will ever be enacted, if it is enacted, and that
is because there is a lack of understanding and a dearth of
information about it.
Let me give you, in brief, the history of this bill. You
have heard already that it has been in Congress some 20
years with a lot of strong-arm pressure behind it. I am
sure there is not anyone on this floor but what recalls
vividly the reprehensible lobbying tactics that have been
used on this bill for the last 10 or 12 months, women at
every door of the House buttonholing most of the Members
of the Congress as they left here.
I want to say to you that this bill was carefully considered
for a long time by a subcommittee of seven Members, and
when it was reported from that subcommittee it was re-
ported by a 1-vote majority. The bill then was reported by
the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce of 25
members, with 2 members absent, and a vote of 11 against
the bill and 12 for it.
Mr. BROWN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. BOREN. I have not time to yield.
There is a great deal of misapprehension on the part of
those who speak here. The gentleman from Kansas [Mr.
REES], for whose judgment I have the greatest respect and
admiration, has fallen into the misapprehension of calling

1940

11317



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0858.txt

11318                            CONGRESSIONAL
this a bill to prevent misrepresentation of fibers. This is
not a bill about truth in fabrics. This bill is about wool,
and wool only, and any other fiber substituted for wool could
not come under the classifications of this bill.
Mr. SOUTH. The gentleman does not want to make an
Incorrect statement?
Mr. BOREN. Mr. Speaker, I hope I can proceed without
interruption and that these interruptions will not be taken
out of my time. The gentleman knows very well that I refer
to the fundamental issue, the one issue in this bill-virginity
in wool.
Mr. SOUTH. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield for a
correction?
Mr. BOREN. The truth of the matter is that the present
law says that if anybody puts a label on goods it must tell
the truth. This bill is to force people to put a label on goods
that would be misleading to the consumer. They want to
force on the retailer a label that he does not want to put on
there because it does not tell the full truth about his goods,
and because it would not be practicable to tell the whole story
on a label.
I intend to talk but 1 more minute here. I am going to
illustrate to you pointedly the real facts of this bill. This
little chart that I hold, divides all woolens into two groups.
The prices marked on these woolens are the current prices
on the market. This bill divides all woolen goods perpen-
dicularly and says that all wool over here [indicating] is to
be labeled virgin wool and all wool over here [indicating]
is to be labeled wool waste.
CuART No. 1.-Comparative values

Current       Wool "wastes"
"Virgin" wool             price
$1.00  Slubbing.
Top sort --------------------------------- 0.90  Broken laps.
.85 Rovings.
Stained wool ----------------------------- .80
Grey wool ---------------------------------.75  Ring wastes.
Paint wool ------------------------------- .70  Thread waste.
Britch --------------------------------  .60  Noils.
Seedy wool -------------------------------  .50
Dead wool -----------------------------   .      50
. 45 Sweepings.
Shearlings -------------------------------- .40  Card waste or card fly.
Burry wool ]------------------------------  .35
Vat wool ----- -------------------------- . 30
. 25-. 50 New rags.
. 20 Burr and brush wastes.
Tanner's wool ----------------------------  .15
Shank wool ------------------------------  .07  Flocks.
.07-. 20 Card strips.
Tags -----------------------------------  .05
. 05-. 25 Old rags.
Based, June 25, 1940, on 64s/70s; clean value, 0 cents top sort.
We know that the word "virgin" is wanted by these manu-
facturers, because it is supposed to connote something that
is worth while. Well, no doubt, virginity does connote some-
thing of value some places, but if the definition of virginity
in wool is to be made by this bill, I want you to have a look
at it.
Under this bill slubbing is defined as a wool waste. It has
never been in a garment, it has never been worn by anybody
and it has never got any further than the early stage of wool
manufacture.
And so on down the line. But notice that tags and shank
wool, burry wool, and seedy wool, the poorest grades of dirty,
filthy wool that can be gathered together, under this label,
will be "virgin" wool and will carry a connotation of value
to the consumer. This bill is not a bill for truth in fabrics,
It is only represented as a bill for truth in woolens, but this
chart vividly points out the real facts, that it is not even a
half-truth in relation to woolen, and at that a misleading
half truth. If you pass this bill you will make the retailer
put a label on his goods which will tell a lie to the consumer
about the value of the goods.
I would not object to a bill of this character at all If it
divided woolen goods into classifications that would be just
to the consumer. Instead of dividing this line perpendicu-
larly, as it does, if it would divide it horizontally, so that

RECORD-HOUSE

AUGUST 30

burry wool and seedy wool and tag wool should not be sold
to the consumer as something of value, then you would find
me up here working for the bill instead of against it.
This is the greatest monstrosity that has been presented
to this Congress in the time I have been here. This is a
highly technical matter. Nobody can fully go into this thing
and understand the difference between these things unless
they study it thoroughly and deliberately. Yet it is brought
in here to be pushed over becduse of indifference and lassi-
tude.
Just one other statement. The American Bureau of
Standards testified before our committee that once this
material was in a garment it would be absolutely impossible
to tell whether the wool would be virgin wool or wool waste.
Later speakers will testify that somebody from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture said it could be told, but I leave you the
choice. You choose between a man from the Department of
Agriculture, who, when I asked him if he would stake his
reputation on that statement, broke down, begged to be ex-
cused, and refused to answer my question, or whether you
will go along with the scientific Bureau of Standards and
admit what they say is true, that you cannot tell the differ-
ence when it is in a garment.
One hundred and thirty million consumers will be cheated,
robbed, lied to, and mislead by this if you let it pass. [Ap-
plause.]
[Here the gavel fell.]
Mr. LEWIS of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes
to the gentleman from Oklahoma [Mr. MONRONEY].
Mr. MONRONEY. Mr. Speaker, we have heard a lot of
conversation about sheep growers on this bill, but I believe
we ought to give some little thought to the man who will be
the goat. That is going to be the American retailer.
Retailing has been my business for 10 years. I know noth-
ing of law, but I do know retailing. I want to say that the
full brunt of this bill will be placed on the back of the over-
loaded retailer today.
I am surprised today at the gentlemen on the other side
of the aisle who I have heard talk for 18 months against
Federal regimentation, insisting against the Government
reaching its long arm into everybody's business and then get
up here and advocate a bill like this, that would reach the
long arm of the Federal marshal into every corner grocery
store. It would reach into every clothing and department
store of this land.
Mr. MICHENER. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. MONRONEY. Yes; I yield.
Mr. MICHENER. The gentleman refers to the gentlemen
over here, to the Republicans. Does he realize that this
is a Democratic bill, introduced by a'Democrat, in charge of
a Democrat on the floor, brought up by a Democratic com-
mittee? If it is good or bad, why bring any politics into it?
Mr. MONRONEY. I am        going by the number of men
who have spoken in favor of the bill on the other side of
the aisle. I say this is regulation of the worst kind.
Mr. SOUTH. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. MONRONEY. I am sorry I do not have time to
yield to the gentleman from Texas, whose great ability and
personal charm has done so much to advance this bill.
Without him it would not even be considered by the com-
mittee. [Laughter and applause.]
Now, I am a retailer. I am used to buying merchandise
for years from a certain factory, relying on their integrity
and on my experience with that merchandise that it is good
merchandise. But now we come along with a Wool Labeling
Act. So I go to some man with a hole-in-the-wall estab-
lishment and I buy a large quantity of merchandise from
this man. It comes to me with the guaranty graciously
provided in the bill. Then, lo and behold, they find that
this man is a chiseler. What happens? My store is raided
and I am subjected to publicity that will drive me out of
the retail business. That is the actual fact. That is what
you will find when this bill gets into actual working practice
back home.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0859.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

Mr. SOUTH. Will the gentleman yield now?
Mr. MONRONEY. I am sorry. I only have 5 minutes.
I want to say that this bill is not supported by the retail
'federation, comprising 250,000 members. They offered some
suggestions in an effort to make the bill less objectionable,
but I tell you now that every retailer in this country would
like to be relieved of the dangers that this bill will entail.
One point I would like to drive home especially, nothing in
this bill provides for the hundreds of millions of dollars'
worth of woolen stocks now on the shelves of the retailers of
this country.
Do you realize what that will mean when this law is passed?
Every bit of this million dollars' worth of woolens immediately
becomes obsolete. These men will have to sell it at a mark-
down of at least 50 percent. Why? Because we wanted to
help a small group of wool raisers increase the price of their
product.
Remember this, too; pass this bill and it establishes wool
in preference to cotton, for we put on wool the hallmark of
character, the word "sterling." When we do that what will
happen? You now buy a pair of lisle socks that may contain
10 percent wool and 90 percent cotton, but once this wool
labeling law is placed into effect you immediately place a
preference on wool. The public will be urged to buy woolens
of increasing wool content at the prejudice of cotton.
Then, too, in the matter of palm-beach suits which today
contain perhaps only 10 percent wool. The public buys them
because the public knows that a palm-beach suit is a cotton
suit. The buyer cares nothing about the wool content. But
wait until you pass this bill, then you will find on the label
"This garment contains 10-percent wool." The clever sales-
man will say, "Let me show you a light tropical-worsted suit,
that contains 100-percent wool. Which do you prefer, one
that contains only 10-percent wool, or one that contains 100-
percent wool?" And the public will wind up buying the 100-
percent tropical worsted, where they had originally wanted
cotton.
. How any Member from the cotton-growing South can vote
to give this preference to wool over the product that means
so much to their section of the country is beyond my compre-
hension. How they can vote for this proposition, I do not
know. [Applause.]
[Here the gavel fell.]
Mr. MICHENER. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may
desire to the gentleman from Minnesota [Mr. PITTENGER].
Mr. PITTENGER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
to extend and revise my remarks and to include therein ex-
cerpts from the hearings on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, it is so
ordered.
There was no objection.
Mr. PITTENGER. Mr. Speaker, I hope this legislation is
adopted. The consuming public has had no more important
issue before the Congress in the last 20 or 25 years than this
measure made in order by this rule. I want to see the rule
adopted.
I take exception to some of the remarks that have been
made in reference to the merits of the measure. Let us adopt
the rule and discuss the bill this afternoon.
Mr. SOUTH. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. PITTENGER. I yield.
Mr. SOUTH. While our eloquent friend from Oklahoma
expressed surprise that any southerner would be for this
bill is it not a fact that the bill passed the Senate by a vote
of 48 to 23, and that his own Senator LEE voted for it?
Mr. PITTENGER. I thank the gentleman for his con-
tribution.
Mr. Speaker, the passage of this legislation will enable
people who buy cloth and other woolen products to know
just what they are getting for their money. It requires that
the woolen products be labeled.
If this legislation is adopted everyone engaged in the man-
ufacture of garments will have to indicate on the finished
products just what goes into those various articles of clothing.

This bill is in the interests of labor and of the farmer and the
clerks and office workers and of everyone who has to pay the
price when it comes to the purchase of clothing for the family.
I am glad to know that a former Member of Congress,
John M. Baer, publicity director of the Union Label Trades
Department of the American Federation of Labor, appeared
before the committee and urged passage of this legislation.
We have known Mr. Baer for many years and his out-
standing work in favor of the labor people is well known. In
testifying before the committee,,he says:
The union-label trades department of the American Federation
of Labor urges the passage of this measure, as it has supported
previous bills aimed at protection of the consumer, especially the
provisions that would force disclosure of the reclaimed wool or
shoddy content of wool products.
Our department represents 51 directly affiliated international
unions of the American Federation of Labor with, a membership
of over 1,000,000. In addition, our department's activities have the
loyal support of the 4,600,000 members of the American Federation
of Labor. Furthermore, the American Federation of Women's Aux-
iliaries of Labor, representing 2,000,000 women, is organized under
our department (hearings, pp. 295-296).
Many other prominent people also testified before the com-
mittee and pointed out that this bill was intended to protect
the consumer and indicated the favorable attitude of their
various organizations in support of this measure. The long-
delayed action on this measure and other similar measures
in past years ought to come to an end, and I believe that the
House will adopt this rule and pass this measure by an over-
whelming vote.
Mr. MICHENER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the
gentleman from California [Mr. HNSHAW].
Mr. HINSHAW. Mr. Speaker, my good friend, the gentle-
men from Oklahoma, said that the proponents of this bill
come from the Republican side. The minority report con-
tains the signatures of 10 opponents of the bill, 5 of whom
are from the Republican side of the House, my name among
them.
I have no wool manufacturers in my district. I have a
few people who might iaise some sheep in the mountains,
but I do have a great many consumers of woolen products in
my district, something like 400,000, in. whom I am greatly
interested in spite of the lobbies to the contrary, and the
lobbies are extremely strong on this bill. I do not know
where this lobby. originated but I have been told that one
manufacturer has spent something like $1,000,000 to lobby
the bill through for his own benefit.
Mr. SOUTH. Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman yield?
Mr. HINSHAW., I must decline to yield, as I have only a
few minutes.
I understand that other people have been paid large sums
of money to lobby in favor of this bill.
For the protection of my own consumers I have to be
against it after an examination of its terms. If this bill were
to provide for the labeling of a garment differentiating be-
tween the fiber content, as between wool, cotton, rayon, or
any loading that might be present in the fibers, I would
favor the bill, but as it is, it differentiates between certain
kinds of wool. I would be glad to be able to differentiate
between those grades myself, but here is what Mr. Emley,
Chief of the Division of Organic and Fibrous Materials, of
the National Bureau of Standards, has to say about it. Now,
listen to this. In response to a question by the gentleman
from Texas [Mr. SOUTH], Mr. Emley said:
When the Bureau of Standards is called upon to forward a report
as to whether or not we can determine the content of reclaimed
wool, we just cannot give any report, because we cannot tell.
Let me point out to you that new wool sells from a few
cents a pound up to perhaps 90 cents a pound. Reworked
wool, reprocessed wool, sells from a few cents a pound to
as high as 90 cents and in one case a dollar. Can you tell
the real utility value of the wool when it is marked as new
wool or reprocessed wool? Certainly not.
You simply cannot do it. Will anybody tell me that new
wool valued at 10 cents a pound, when worked into cloth, is
equal in value, 'in abrasive strength, color fastness, wear or

1940

11319



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0860.txt

11320

anything else, with a reprocessed wool valued at 60 cents a
pound? It is ridiculous. It would be a fraud upon the
American public to so make them think that just because a
product is labeled "wool" it has a higher value than if it was
labeled "reprocessed wool" or "reused wool."
Mr. Speaker, I do not need to protect the intelligentsia of
my district in this matter. They are able to protect them-
selves from their own knowledge of the fabrics, and their
ability to pay high prices and buy from the most responsible
merchants. I am interested in protecting the poor people
who do not understand these terms, who do not know the
value of the wool that goes into manufacture and do not have
the money to pay fancy prices for their clothes. I could go
on and read testimony that was given to the committee, but
it is all contained in the hearings which were printed in
March of 1939. They are available for you to study.- Let us
not work any fraud on the American public by putting into
this bill a differentiation in terms which would indicate to the
public that a real differentiation in value existed when that
differentiation in value may not be there. As I said before,
if this thing would really define wool and leave it up to the
people who sold the goods in the stores, to the people who
manufacture the goods into clothing or whatever it may be,
on their responsibility to tell the public that this is a good
product, then I think it would be safe for the public. As it is,
it is going to give every cheap shyster gyp artist in the United
States a chance to cheat the American people. There is no
possibility of anybody telling within 15 percent after final
analysis and wear of the product as to whether or not it con-
tains a certain percentage of this or a certain percentage of
that kind of wool.
[Here the gavel fell.]
Mr. MICHENER. Mr. Speaker, I yield the remainder of
our time to the gentleman from South Dakota [Mr. CASE].
Mr. CASE of South Dakota. Mr. Speaker, the opposition
to this bill is hard-pressed and confused. Most of the argu-
ments advanced by one speaker destroy the arguments ad-
vanced by another. Indeed, in the report by a minority of
the committee, most of the objections raised are entirely an-
swered by other arguments in the same statement.
The first argument set forth is that the label proposed
will not tell everything that can be told about clothing. It
will not tell the tensile strength of the fabric, they say, the
length of the fiber, the workmanship that goes into the gar-
ment, or a lot of things. If it did they would then argue that
it tells too much. They already complain there is too much
labeling. Now, this bill does not purport to tack an encyclo-
pedia on every piece of fabric. It does not purport to tell
what the man who buys a suit should wear when he eats
breakfast. It only purports to say that when the label says,
"This is all wool," it is all wool. It simply requires that when
you say, "This is all wool and a yard wide" you mean what
you say.
The second argument advanced is that the evils of false
labeling are being curbed and gradually cured by the Federal
Trade Commission. If that were so the Federal Trade Com-
mission itself would not be on record in favor of the passage
of the bill and the Federal Trade Commission did testify in
favor of the bill. It testified that something like this was
needed to put teeth into their recommendations to the trade.
The third objection claimed is that it is practically impos-
sible to test the accuracy of a label. I wish these gentlemen
might have been with me when recently I had the privilege
of going through the testing laboratories in the Army clothing
depot over at Philadelphia. The question had come up during
our hearings on appropriations for clothing and equipage in
the Army appropriation bill as to whether or not the Army
actually could tell when it was getting real wool in its blankets
and in its uniforms. One member of the committee wondered
if the Army did not get cheated. But we were told by General
Gregory that the Army could tell. I was in Philadelphia not
so long ago and I took occasion to spend a couple of hours
in the great. clothing depot up there. I went into the labora-
tories and I saw the men making their tests. They showed
me the results when they took a piece of true wool and when

AUGUST 30

they took a piece of fabric that carried shoddy and other
fillers, and they told me the kind of tests they made. Any
man here could see the difference in color, feel the difference
in weight, and sense the difference in quality after he saw the
effect of the tests applied. Vegetable fibers would disappear
when certain acids were applied. Shoddy goods would break
under tests of tensile strength.
This argument that tests are ineffective is ridiculous. If
it were true that you could not tell by making these tests,
why should you object to the passage of the legislation? If
the thing was not going to be effective, if it was not going
to accomplish anything, why should you object? The fact
is that laboratory tests can check the accuracy of the labels,
and check tests are all that is needed to police the trade.
A related argument advanced is that the bill would require
an army of inspectors and send United States deputy mar-
shals into every store in the country is nonsense. When you
have a law against murder, it does not mean that you sus-
pect every man, and investigate to see whether or not he is
going to commit a murder. Just because we have some
counterfeiting does not mean a law against counterfeiting
requires you to subject every dollar bill to a test to deter-
mine whether it is a counterfeit bill or not. The value of
laws against these things is when you have a violation you
have an effective method of dealing with the situation, and
that is why we ask for the passage of this legislation. You
will not have to check every piece of goods, but when you
do check and find misrepresentation you will have the
weapon to punish the fraud.
The final argument advanced in the statement against
this bill is that it would raise the cost of -the goods and
would do nothing for the wool grower 'because the con-
sumer would be unable to buy woolen goods. That argument
is destroyed by the argument that appear%, directly above it
where it is contended that the bill would be injurious to the
cotton producer because instead of buying goods containing
some cotton, the consumer would demand all woolen goods.
In the same paragraph, it is also contended that the con-
sumer buys according to his means. Well, if he can only
buy mixed goods, what harm is done? Indeed, is not good
done by giving this innocent purchaser the guarantee that
the label on the goods tells the truth? This bill does not
make it a crime to use mixed materials; it only requires that
the truth be told about them and provides penalties for
lying. The practical effect of all these arguments advanced
against the bill is that one destroys the other.
The bill will hurt some place and it will hurt in the spot
it should hurt-the pocketbook of the chiseler who has
paraded in sheep's clothing. It will help where it should
help by giving protection to the consumer who cannot pro-
tect himself.
A great deal is being said about national defense these
days. Probably you will remember the shoddy scandal dur-
ing the war. In his Memoirs, volume I, page 316, General
Pershing writes:
Much of the clothing that we received for our troops was re-
ported to be shoddy. I saw numbers of our men wearing uniforms
which were light and thin and which, of course, offered insufficient
protection. The lack of clothing had been met in part by pur-
chases from the British. Our troops did not take kindly to the
idea of wearing the uniform of another nation, and it was with
considerable protest and chagrin that they did so.
I hope that will not happen again. [Applause.]
[Here the gavel fell.]
Mr. LEWIS of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I yield 6 minutes to
the gentleman from Texas [Mr. SUMNERS].
Mr. SUMNERS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I hope not to
cover any ground that has already been gone over. This
proposed legislation is far more important than its effect
upon the articles with which it is dealing. In my examina-
tion of the development of governmental policies, I have be-
come thoroughly convinced that many of the things-many
of the dangerous, extreme things-which government has to
do are due to the fact that government has not done the rela-
tively few things which government ought to do when it

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

