

NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1330.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - SENATE

August 31, 1970

Senator COOPER, ranking minority mem-
ber, and myself-introducing legislation
which will provide this mechanism. I
consider it absolutely essential to the
protection of the environment. Mr. Pres-
ident, I ask unanimous consent that the
bill be printed in full at the conclusion of
my remarks.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(See exhibit 1.)
Mr. PERCY. Mr. President, the corps
has itself appointed an ex officio En-
vironmental Advisory Board partially in
response to the criticism it has received.
It consists of six men authorized to ad-
vise the corps concerning environmental
issues. While the Board gives every sign
of being a good idea, I believe it is not
nearly effective enough as presently
structured. What is worse, it carries no
promise of improvement in the future.
The legislation I am introducing today
builds on the principle and structure
that the corps itself has chosen and in
my judgment strengthens it to insure its
effectiveness.
It is my plan to establish a permanent,
statutory Environmental Advisory Board
within the Corps of Engineers. The
Board shall consist of six members to be
chosen by the Secretary of the Army
from a list of candidates submitted by
the President's Council on Environmen-
tal Quality. This, hopefully, will insure
that only highly qualified environmen-
talists be nominated to the Board, but
it enables, at the same time, the Secre-
tary of the Army to exercise a certain
degree of flexibility in choosing those to
serve.
The Board's primary function will be
to submit a recommendation on each
corps project to the Secretary of the
Army before any construction has begun,
or any permit issued. Their recommen-
dation will be based upon the environ-
mental considerations surrounding the
proposed project. If the Secretary of the
Army decides to act contrary to the rec-
ommendations of the Board, the matter
will automatically be forwarded to the
Secretary of Defense who shall, after re-
viewing the Board's recommendations
and the Secretary's reasons for not fol-
lowing them, make a final decision. In
addition, the Board shall be represented
at each hearing conducted by the corps,
and possess the right to hold initial hear-
ings and/or subsequent hearings.
The annual report of the corps to the
Congress shall include a summary of the
Board's recommendations to the corps,
the actions taken by the corps in re-
sponse to those recommendations, and
any other comments concerning the
operations of the corps with respect to
the environment which It deems per-
tinent.
Mr. President, the enactment of this
legislation will stand as a benchmark in
the history of environmental legislation.
It will for the first time provide a struc-
ture to insure the consideration of the
environment in all projects proposed to
be undertaken by the corps. More impor-
tantly, it will establish the important
precedent for creating In each govern-
mental department a method for the sys-
tematic inquiry into these questions.
Perhaps some might comment that this

legislation is unnecessary since the corpE
has already   established  an  Advisory
Board. I would point out, however, tha
this Board, though conceived some b
months ago, has met only once and hac
not yet been asked to submit its opinion
on any project. I am sure that the corpE
is sincere in its desire to protect the en-
vironment, but it is my opinion that so
far its work represents only a good be-
ginning. By statutorily establishing this
Board, by specifying the manner in which
the members of the Board shall be
chosen, and by spelling out its functions,
this legislation promises prime attention
to the environment. If, for any reason,
the Secretary of the Army, or the Secre-
tary of Defense decide to go against the
Board's   environmental    recommenda-
tions, I am confident that their reasons
will be justifiable since both the public
and the Congress will have the opportu-
nity to keep close tabs on these issues.
Mr. President, each Member of the
Congress can site innumerable examples
of where the views of reasonable citizens
concerning some project of the Corps of
Engineers   have   been    unnecessarily
squelched. Had this Board existed 10
years ago, these controversies might
never have arisen.
Each of us in this body knows that
there are some bills which have been in-
troduced which received considerable
publicity, but which realistically do little
to solve our environmental problems.
This bill, though, is not a grandstander.
It is a bill that is a down-to-earth prac-
tical solution that will work.
The idea behind this Board is long
overdue. In order to protect the environ-
ment, in order to protect the rights of all
citizens to an unspoiled environment,
and in order to enable the corps to carry
out its duties, this legislation deserves
the immediate and favorable considera-
tion of the Congress.
I am grateful for the powerful support
offered by the co-sponsorship of Sena-
tors RANDOLPH and COOPER who have
distinguished themselves through the
years in their concern for preserving our
environment.
The bill (S. 4307) to amend the En-
vironmental Quality Improvement Act of
1970 in order to establish a Corps of En-
gineers Environmental Advisory Board,
introduced by Mr. PERCY (for himself,
Mr. RANDOLPH, and Mr. COOPER), was re-
ceived, read twice by its title, referred
to the Committee on Public Works, and
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as
follows:
S. 4307
Be it enacted by the Senate and the House
o0 Representatives o the United States o
America in Congress assembled , That the En-
vironmental Quality Improvement Act of
1970 is amended (1) in section 205 by in-
serting after "to be appropriated" the follow-
Ing: "to carry out the preceding provisions of
this title," and (2) by inserting after such
section a new section as follows:
"CORPS OF ENGINEERS ENVIRONMENTAL
ADVISORY ROARD
"SEC. 206. (a) There is established in the
Department of the Army a Corps of Engi-
neers Environmental Advisory Board (here-
inafter in this section referred to as the
'Board'). The Board shall be comprised of six
members appointed by the Secretary of the
Army for terms of three years each, except

that (1) of the initial six members of the
Board, two shall serve for terms of one year
each, two for terms of two years each, and
two for terms of three years each as deter-
mined by the Secretary at the time of ap-
poIntment, (2) a member shall continue to
serve until his successor Is appointed, and
(3) a member appointed to fill a vacancy in
an unexpired term shall be appointed for the
remainder of such term. Each member of the
Board shall be appointed from among at least
two individuals proposed for such appoint-
ment by the Council on Environmental Qual-
Ity, except that on the effective date of this
section any individual serving as a member of
the environmental advisory board to the
Corps of Engineers in the Department of the
Army may be appointed as one of the ini-
tial six members of the Board. The Board
shall annually elect one member to serve as
Chairman. Members of the Board shall be en-
titled to receive compensation at a rate fixed
by the Secretary of the Army but not ex-
ceeding the rate specified for grade GS-18 in
section 6332 of title 5, United States Code.
"(b) The Board shall review all functions
of the Secretary of the Army being carried
out through the Corps of Engineers for the
purpose of making such recommendations to
the Secretary with respect to each function
as the Board determines will best carry out
the purpose of this title and the National En-
vironmental Policy Act of 1969.
"(c) Any report submitted to the Congress
as part of such functions by the Secretary
with respect to any examination or survey or
recommending any improvement for river
or harbor or flood control purposes shall in-
clude the Board's recommendations, if any,
with respect to any activity proposed in such
report.
"(d) In any case where the Board sub-
mits a recommendation to the Secretary of
the Army relating to an authorized program
to be carried out by the Secretary and the
Secretary determines not to carry out such
recommendation in its entirety, the Secretary
shall submit such recommendation, along
with the reasons for not carrying it out, to
the Secretary of Defense who shall make a
final determination with respect to carrying
out the recommendation prior to its imple-
mentation.
"(e) In each hearing conducted by the
corps, the Chairman of the Board or his des-
ignee shall attend.
"(f) The Board is authorized to conduct
initial and/or subsequent hearings upon
finding that (1) the corps has under con-
sideration a project which will substantially
effect the environment and for which the
corps will grant or deny a permit, (2) the
corps has conducted initial inquiries which
in the Board's judgment did not adequately
deal with all the appropriate issues or (3)
that the public interest has been sufficiently
represented to the Board to warrant further
official inquiry.
"(g) There shall be included In the an-
nual report submitted by the corps to the
Congress a summary of the recommendations
made by the Board to the corps, and the ac-
tions taken on the basis of those recommen-
dations; plus such other comments as the
Board shall determine to be necessary or de-
sirable with respect to the operations of the
corps as such operations relate to environ-
mental protection.
"(h) The Board is authorized to employ
such officers and employees (including ex-
perts and consultants) as may be necessary
to carry out its functions under this section.
"(i) The Board shall have access to any in-
formation in the possession of the corps and
may request the Corps to obtain or develop
such information as it may require; the corps
shall make available to the Board such staff
and facilities as may be required.
"(j) There are authorized to be appropri-
ated such amounts as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of this section."

30504



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1331.txt

August 31, 1970

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - SENATE

ORDER OF BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The sen-
ior Senator from West Virginia is recog-
nized.
Mr. BYRD of West Virginia. Mr. Presi-
dent, does the Senator from Illinois still
hold the floor?
Mr. PERCY. Mr. President, does the
distinguished Senator wish the floor? I
would be happy to yield it to him.
Mr. RANDOLPH. Mr. President, the
Senator from Illinois may yield the floor
and I will take the floor in my own
right.
Mr. PERCY. Mr. President, I would be
very happy to yield the floor.
Mr. BYRD of West Virginia. Mr. Presi-
dent, I think it would be well if the Sen-
ator yielded to the Senator his remain-
ing time, because I am about to pro-
pound a unanimous-consent request.
Mr. PERCY. Mr. President, I yield the
remaining time to the senior Senator
from West Virginia.
UNANIMOUS-CONSENT AGREEMENT
Mr. BYRD of West Virginia. Mr. Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent that once
the Senator yields the floor, there be a
period for the transaction of routine
morning business with a time limitation
on statements made therein for 3 min-
utes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. PERCY. Mr. President, does the
distinguished Senator from Kentucky
desire to make remarks on this matter?
Mr. COOPER. Mr. President, I under-
stand that the Senator has yielded to the
senior Senator from West Virginia. If
there is any time remaining I will speak
on the matter.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia has 13 minutes
remaining. Following that time, there
will be a period for the transaction of
routine morning business with a period
therein not to exceed 3 minutes.
CONTINUATION OF DEBATE ON THE
INTRODUCTION OF A BILL TO ES-
TABLISH A CORPS OF ENGINEERS
ADVISORY BOARD
Mr. RANDOLPH. Mr. President, I am
gratified to join the able Senator from
Illinois (Mr. PERCY) as a cosponsor of his
bill to establish an Environmental Ad-
visory Board in the Corps of Engineers.
The Senator from Illinois has quite
properly called attention to the very
substantial impact on our natural en-
vironment by the civil works projects
constructed by the Corps of Engineers.
It is important that this impact be fully
recognized and that projects under the
Jurisdiction of the corps be planned and
executed in such a way as to avoid un-
desirable results.
I commend my colleague from Illinois
for taking the initiative to create a body
which would concern itself exclusively
with the important work of the Corps of
Engineers, and its relationship to the en-
vironment.
If the measure is enacted, I do not
anticipate that the Environmental Ad-

visory Board would relieve the Council
on Environmental Quality of any of its
responsibilities as established by the Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act of 1969.
I envision, rather, that the Environ-
mental Advisory Board of the Corps of
Engineers would complement and rein-
force the Council in its function of re-
viewing and appraising the environ-
mental impact of all Federal activities.
The relationship of the two bodies, in
fact, is indicated in the bill by the re-
quirement that members of the En-
vironmental Advisory Board be appointed
from a list of candidates submitted by
the Council on Environmental Quality.
Furthermore, by confining its area of
responsibility to the Corps of Engineers,
the Board could be of considerable value
in helping the Council on Environmental
Quality develop its own expertise in this
area.
Many projects undertaken by the
Corps of Engineers are of such a large
scale that their effect on the environ-
ment is substantial. Surely, a large dam
can make its presence felt over a wide
area, just as can a series of locks on a
major waterway or even a small water-
shed project. All of these activities by
the corps have worthwhile and produc-
tive goals, but we must assure that they
do not also produce undesirable side ef-
fects. The very scope of many corps proj-
ects makes this assurance essential, for
they are prominent examples of Govern-
ment activity that must prominently re-
flect Government concern for the en-
vironment.
The Subcommittee on Flood Control,
Rivers and Harbors of the Committee on
Public Works, under the chairmanship
of the distinguished Senator from Ohio
(Mr. YOUNG), has already conducted ex-
tensive hearings on legislation relating
to Corps of Engineers activities. The
subcommittee has additional hearings
scheduled, and I hope it will be able to
consider this bill soon. This bill to estab-
lish a Corps of Engineers Environmental
Advisory Board is a timely and worth-
while proposal. I hope it will receive the
prompt and affirmative attention of the
Senate.
The Senator from Kentucky (Mr.
COOPER) has been alluded to by the
Senator from Illinois as the ranking
minority member of the Committee on
Public Works. We have discussed this
proposal. At the outset there was some
question in our thinking as we developed
our action which leads us to join the
Senator from Illinois.
Mr. President, How much time do I
have remaining?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator has 4 minutes remaining.
Mr. RANDOLPH. Mr. President, I yield
to the Senator from Kentucky, or, if he
desires, I will yield the floor.
Mr. COOPER. Mr. President, will the
Senator from Illinois yield to me?
Mr. PERCY. I have yielded the floor.
Mr. RANDOLPH. Mr. President, I have
4 minutes remaining. I yield to the Sen-
ator and I am sure we could get further
time if necessary.
Mr. COOPER. Mr. President, I thank
the Senator from West Virginia and the
Presiding Officer for their generosity.

The distinguished Senator from Illi-
nois (Mr. PERCY) has stated well the
purpose of the bill which he has intro-
duced, and in which the Senator from
West Virginia and I have joined.
I think it is fortunate that the Senator
from West Virginia (Mr. RANDOLPH),
chairman of the Committee on Public
Works, is a sponsor of the bill. As the
ranking Republican member of the
committee, I wanted to join in sponsor-
ing the bill so that our committee in a
bipartisan way, could study this bill and
explore the very important issues it
raises.
In the last 5 years the Committee on
Public Works has engaged in the consid-
eration of many problems about which
very little was known throughout the
country. We held hearings and Senate
bills have been passed dealing with air
pollution control, water pollution con-
trol, control of oil spillage, and on solid
waste management. In connection with
the Federal highway system we have
dealt with comprehensive bills to give
greater protection to the environment
and the ecology from the intrusion of
even necessary highways.
Now, through bills like that introduced
by  the  Senator from    Illinois (Mr.
PERCY), we could begin to place more
emphasis on the Corps of Engineers
activities and the necessary protection
of the environment which should accom-
pany those activities. We owe much to
the Corps of Engineers. In my State, the
Corps of Engineers has reconstructed
locks and dams on the Ohio River and
made it the greatest artery of water
traffic in the world. The corps activities
involve water quality and storage; they
have given us flood protection to save
the lives of people.
Now, we believe it is important to look
ahead. In many instances it may be too
late. We think it important that we
begin to study the enactment of neces-
sary legislation to protect as best we can
the environment and ecology in our river
valleys.
Mr. President, I wish to pay tribute to
our colleague from    Illinois for his
thoughtfulness and initiative In intro-
ducing this legislation. I assure him that
in the Committee on Public Works the
Senator   from   West   Virginia  (Mr.
RANDOLPH), and I, as well as others, will
give this matter our fullest attention.
I thank the Senator.
Mr. PERCY. Mr. President, will the
Senator yield?
Mr. COOPER. I yield.
Mr. PERCY. Mr. President, I wish to
express my deep appreciation for the
comments that have been made this
afternoon by my distinguished col-
leagues. I have had a great deal of re-
spect for the work they have done in the
Committee on Public Works. I do not
think many Members of this body fully
appreciate the amount of time and atten-
tion it takes to consider these projects
all over the country. The time and atten-
tion required should not be underesti-
mated.
I have been constantly amazed, as I
have testified before the committee, at
the depth of the understanding the com-
mittee members have of the projects. I

30505



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1332.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - SENATE

August 31, 1970

know they themselves have been deeply
concerned    about   the  environmental
protection.
I think the solution we have arrived
at today via the legislative process will
strengthen the credibility and enhance
the reputation, which is already high, of
the constructive work the corps has done.
It will provide both a visibility and a
mechanism whereby we can provide ade-
quate funds and thought to each under-
taking in evaluating the effect it promises
upon the environment and upon society.
I thank my distinguished colleague
once again.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. What is
the pleasure of the Senate?
TRANSACTION OF ROUTINE
MORNING BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to the previous order, the Senate will now
proceed to a period for the transaction
of routine morning business, with state-
ments therein not to exceed 3 minutes.
STATEMENT BY SENATOR PROX-
MIRE ON THE PROXMIRE-NEL-
SON-HUGHES         DRAFT     AMEND-
MENT
Mr. BYRD of West Virginia. Mr. Pres-
ident, at the request of the able Senator
from Wisconsin (Mr. PROXMIRE), I ask
unanimous consent to insert in the REC-
ORD a statement by Mr. PROXMIRE on the
Proxmire-Nelson-Hughes draft amend-
ment.
There being no objection, the state-
ment was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
STATEMENT OF SENATOR PROXMIRE ON THE
PROXMIRE-NELSON-HUGHES DRAFT AMEND-
MENT
Mr. President, tomorrow the Senate will
vote on the Proxmire-Nelson-Hughes amend-
ment which would provide that no draftee
would be sent to Vietnam, Laos, or Cambodia
without his consent.
The amendment provides that after the
date of enactment of the Military Authoriza-
tion bill, no funds may be expended for the
purpose of sending draftees to South Viet-
nam, Cambodia or Laos, unless specifically
authorized by Congress at a later date, or
unless they volunteer.
It is now both possible and practical to
do this.
"Numerically, it is now possible to end the
practice of sending draftees to Vietnam. At
the present time, there are only 107,400
draftees serving there. This figure represents
less than 4 percent of our total U.S. military
strength of 3.1 million men, and only 8 per-
cent of the 1.3 million men now serving in
the U.S. Army. There should be more than
enough other military personnel to fulfill
any obligations we may have in Vietnam
without sending more draftees.
"Furthermore, the total of 265,000 men
President Nixon has announced will be with-
drawn from South Vietnam by next spring
is two and a half times larger than the
107,400 Army draftees now serving in that
country.
There is one further fact which makes it
practical to stop sending draftees to Viet-
nam. Secretary Laird stated in May that by
the end of fiscal year 1971, American ground
troops in Vietnam will not be assigned to
combat missions. While some of our troops
will still be there, they will not be assigned
to combat duty.
There is thus no reason to send further

draftees to Vietnam, because the only argu-
ment now for draftees in Vietnam is because
they are a very large part of the combat
units-disproportionately large and without
draftees it would otherwise be difficult to
send new combat units to Vietnam.
A FAIR PROPOSAL
It Is not only practical, but it is also a
fair proposal.
"The draftee serving in South Vietnam to-
day is assuming a highly disproportionate
share of the fighting, and the dying, in that
country. This has, in fact, been the case for
several years now.
"In 1965, only 16 percent of total combat
deaths in Vietnam, including all branches
of the armed forces, were draftees. By 1968,
this percentage had risen to 34 percent; by
1969 to 41 percent. Today, although draftees
comprise only a quarter of all our men in
Vietnam, their percentage of combat deaths
has risen to 46 percent. Thus, while draftees
comprise just over 10 percent of all military
personnel, they comprise almost half of com-
bat deaths in Vietnam. That is unfair.
"Statistics for 1969 further substantiate
the fact that draftees are becoming the can-
non fodder of the Vietnam War. During this
period, Army draftees were being killed in
action at a rate of 31 per 1,000. By contrast,
Army enlistees were killed at a rate of 17 per
1,000. Thus, Army draftees were killed at
nearly twice the rate of non-draftees in Viet-
nam last year.
"Facts and figures do not, in themselves,
reveal the entire nature of the draftee's bur-
den. For the draftee is, by definition, an in-
voluntary inductee. He is serving in Vietnam
by command, not consent. He has no choice
in the matter. The vast majority of draftees
in Vietnam are there against their will, fight-
ing a war Congress has not even declared.
"The draftee has assumed a dispropor-
tionate share of the combat role in the Viet-
nam War. Now the combat role is being
phased out. Last week 52 Americans were
killed in action in Vietnam, the lowest total
in three years.
"We no longer need the draftee in Viet-
nam. His role as the combat soldier can be
and should be phased out. We have men to
replace him, men that will go to Vietnam as
volunteers, not involuntary inductees. This
policy of an all-volunteer armed force in
Vietnam is not only feasible, but right."
I want to make it clear that the amend-
ment does not withdraw the draftees now
in Vietnam at a faster rate than others or
prevent them from continuing to fight. But
it would prevent sending other draftees to
Vietnam if the amendment is passed.
AMENDMENT WOULD EQUALIZE DRAFTEES AND
VOLUNTEERS
In a very real sense what the amendment
would do is to give the draftee the same
option that the volunteer now has.
At the present time if a man signs up
voluntarily for the military, he can most
often choose his specialty or his training.
The effect of this is to exempt him from
combat duty in Vietnam.
In addition, men in combat in Vietnam
are offered opportunities to leave Vietnam
or to escape from combat, if they sign on for
an additional period of time.
Again, the practical effect has been that
the non-draftee fights only if he volunteers
to fight, but the draftee-in very large pro-
portions-is forced to fight.
The amendment, by giving the draftee a
choice much like the choice of the non-
draftee-would tend to equalize this pres-
ently very unequal situation.
The Proxmire-Nelson-Hughes amendment
has been co-sponsored by Senators Cranston,
Young of Ohio, Church, Yarborough, Mc-
Govern, and Goodell.
It deserves to be passed in order to provide
some semblance of equality in who is re-
quired to fight in Vietnam in the few re-

maining months when combat missions will
still be assigned.
PETITIONS
Petitions were laid before the Senate
and referred as indicated:
By the ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore (Mr. METCALF):
The petition  of Frances Bogatoy, of
Youngstown, Ohio, praying for the enact-
ment of legislation relating to revenue shar-
ing; to the Committee on Finance.
A letter, In the nature of a petition, from
George F. Bern, of Youngstown, Ohio, pray-
ing for the enactment of legislation relating
to revenue sharing; to the Committee on
Finance.
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. McGEE, from the Committee on
Post Office and Civil Service, without amend-
ment:
S. 4227. A bill to provide an equitable sys-
tem for fixing and adjusting the rates of pay
for prevailing rate employees of the Govern-
ment, and for other purposes (Rept. No.
91-1155).
By Mr. YARBOROUGH, from the Commit-
tee on Appropriations, with amendments:
H.R. 16900. An act making appropriations
for the Treasury and Post Office Depart-
ments, the Executive Office of the President,
and certain independent agencies, for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1971, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 91-1156).
DISASTER     ASSISTANCE      ACT    OF
1970-REPORT       OF   A   COMMIT-
TEE-INDIVIDUAL         VIEWS       (S.
REPT. NO. 91-1157)
Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, from the
Committee on Public Works I report fa-
vorably the bill S. 3619, the Disaster As-
sistance Act of 1970, with an amend-
ment.
In accordance with the agreement of
the chairmen of -the Public Works and
the Banking and Currency Committees
after the bill was ordered reported from
the Public Works Conunittee on Au-
gust 12, it was referred to the Banking
Committee for review, comments and
possible amendment.
The Banking Committee on August 25
considered the bill and suggested certain
changes which have been incorporated in
the bill as reported.
I ask unanimous consent that the in-
dividual views of the Senator from Kan-
sas (Mr. DOLE) be printed together with
the report.
The   PRESIDING      OFFICER     (Mr.
COOK). The report will be received and
the bill will be placed on the calendar;
and, without objection, the report will
be printed, as requested by the Senator
from Indiana.
BILLS INTRODUCED
Bills were introduced, read the first
time and, by unanimous consent, the sec-
ond time, and referred as follows:
By Mr. ERVIN:
S. 4303. A bill for the relief of Maria Irma
Majano de Reyes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. McGOVERN:

30506



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1333.txt

August 31, 1970

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - SENATE

S. 4304. A bill to amend Section 402(a)
(10) of the Social Security Act; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
(The remarks of Mr. McGovERN when he
introduced the bill appear below under the
appropriate heading.)
By Mr. PERCY:
S. 4305. A bill to amend section 902 of
title 38, United States Code, to eliminate
certain duplications in Federal benefits now
payable for the same, or similar, purposes;
and
S. 4306. A bill to repeal the savings provi-
sion of Public Law 90-493 protecting veter-
ans entitled to disability compensation for
arrested tuberculosis; to the Committee on
Finance.
(The remarks of Mr. PERCY when he intro-
duced the bills appear earlier in the RECORD
under the appropriate heading.)
By Mr. PERCY      (for himself, Mr.
RANDOLPH, and Mr. COOPER):
S. 4307. A bill to amend the Environmental
Quality Improvement Act of 1970 In order to
establish a Corps of Engineers Environmen-
tal Advisory Board; to the Committee on
Public Works.
(The remarks of Mr. PERCY when he in-
troduced the bill appear earlier in the
RECORD under the appropriate heading.)
By Mr. STEVENS:
S. 4308. A bill for the relief of the estate
of Lowell W. Gresham; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. HRUSKA (by request):
S. 4309. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
(The remarks of Mr. HRUSKA when he in-
troduced the bill appear later In the RECORD
under the appropriate heading.)
S. 4304-INTRODUCTION OF A BILL
TO AMEND THE SOCIAL SECURITY
ACT
FAMILY ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1970-
AMENDMENTS
AMENDMENTS NOS. 870 THROUGH 874
Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. President, today
I am proposing three changes in the ad-
ministration's family assistance proposal,
included in five amendments to that bill,
and one amendment to the Social Secu-
rity Act a bill that would make it easier
for welfare recipients to accept work.
Without objection I request that at this
point my statement before the Senate
Finance Committee, and the bill and
amendments be printed in the RECORD.
The   PRESIDING       OFFICER     (Mr.
CooK). The bill will be received and ap-
propriately referred; and, without objec-
tion, the bill will be printed in the
RECORD; and the amendments will be
received and printed, and will be appro-
priately referred; and, without objec-
tion, the amendments and statement will
be printed in the RECORD.
The bill (S. 4304) to amend section 402
(a) (10) of the Social Security Act; in-
troduced by Mr. MCGOVERN, was received,
read twice by its title, referred to the
Committee on Finance, and ordered to
be printed in the RECORD, as follows:
S. 4304
Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That sec-
tion 402(a) (10) of the Social Security Act
is amended-
(1) by inserting "(A)" immediately after
"(10)" ;
(2) by inserting at the end thereof the
following:
"(B) provide that, effective April 1, 1971,

whenever any family whose eligibility for
such aid is terminated by reason of the ac-
ceptance of employment by any member
thereof, such family may (within one year
after such eligibility was so terminated),
by filing a simple sworn declaration as to
pertinent factual information, immediately
re-establish Its eligibility for such aid;".
The amendments (Nos. 870 through
874), submitted by Mr. McGoVERN, were
referred to the Committee on Finance,
and ordered to be printed in the RECORD,
as follows:
AMENDMENT No. 870
On page 30, line 3, strike out "(a)", and
On page 30, strike out lines 15 through 24.
AMENDMENT No. 871
On page 25, lines 10 and 20, strike out "or
supervise the carrying out of".
AMENDMENT No. 872
On page 4, line 3, insert the following:
"(a)"
On page 34, line 7, strike out "1964" and
all that follows, and insert in lieu thereof,
"1964."
On page 34, between lines 7 and 8, insert
the following new subsection:
"(b) It is the intention of Congress that
the Secretary of Health, Education and Wel-
fare and the States in administering the
Assistance Programs established by Title IV
of the Social Security Act as amended by
this Act, will to the fullest extent feasible,
insure that the seniority, pension, and other
rights and benefits enjoyed by those who
were employed in the Administration of pro-
grams under such title as in effect prior
to the effective date of this Act, will be pre-
served and protected."
AMENDMENT NO. 873
On page 16, beginning with the word "The"
on line 16, strike out all through "applica-
tions,", and insert in lieu thereof:
"The Secretary shall provide for the use
of a simplified statement, to establish eligi-
bility, and for adequate and effective meth-
ods of verification of applicants and recipi-
ents through the use of sampling and other
scientific techniques, and shall provide for".
AMENDMENT No. 874
On page 27, beginning with the word "or"
on line 7 strike out all through the word
"payments" on line 9.
On page 27, line 18, beginning with the
word "unemployed," strike out all through
line 2 on page 28, and insert in lieu thereof:
"unemployed."
On page 28, line 12, strike out the word
"part," and insert in lieu thereof the word
"title,".
The statement, presented by Mr. Mc-
GOVERN, is as follows:
STATEMENT OF SENATOR GEORGE MCGOVERN
BEFORE THE SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE,
AUGUST 25, 1970
It is a special pleasure for me to appear
before this Committee to testify on the Ad-
ministration's Family Assistance Plan. The
Administration's initiative in this area has
opened an opportunity for all of us to par-
ticipate in what can be a truly historic step
forward in the fight for an adequate and
dignified program of public assistance in
America. I know that this is something all of
us desire, though we may have some differ-
ences over the details. We all want to make
sure that Family Assistance is a really work-
able reform of the present system, not simply
another flop which disappoints Americans
who support it through their taxes and Amer-
icans who hope to improve their lives through
its benefits. There is no question of the good
intentions of the Administration in proposing

this measure. But we all know where good
intentions alone may lead. The potential
significance of this legislation requires that
it be given the most searching inquiry. I
know that this Committee is doing just that
and I hope my remarks here today will be of
some help In that regard.
Before discussing the details of the pro-
gram itself, however, I would like to respond
to what I feel have been some unnecessary
and unjustified remarks emanating from
various quarters of the Administration. Since
Family Assistance passed the House of Rep-
resentatives, Administration spokesmen have
repeatedly charged that its final passage by
the Congress is being obstructed by liberals.
I am frankly mystified by these charges, for,
as best as I can tell, it has been the so-called
liberals who have been consistently in the
forefront of those supporting Family Assist-
ance. Admittedly, this support has been ex-
pressed with reservations but the support has
been there nevertheless. In fact, the Admin-
istration's criticism of those who basically
support its effort makes one wonder about
its understanding of the legislative process
and its seriousness about enacting legislation.
Let there be no doubt about this fact. Lib-
erals want a Public Assistance reform just as
badly as its most vigorous proponents down-
town. But they want a bill that will really
work. And, I for one, have serious doubts that
the Administration proposal, unless signifi-
cantly modified, will work. Let me just add,
in passing, that this Committee is perform-
ing an important service to us all in exposing
the discrepancies between the realities of
Family Assistance and some of the more
extravagant claims that have been made for
it. Family Assistance is no panacea for the
varied ills of our society. It can be one reu-
sonable and practical step forward, however,
in the developemnt of a larger national in-
come maintenance strategy.
As you know, I have been deeply inter-
