LIFE ON EARTH
(By Donella H. Meadows)
PLAINFIELD, NH.-The ozone hole and the
greenhouse effect have entered our public
vocabulary, but we have no catchy label for
the third great environmental problem of
the late-2Oth Century. It's even more dif-
fuse than depletion of the ozone layer or
global warming, harder to grasp and sum-
marize. The experts call It "the loss of blodi-
versity."
Biodiversity obviously has something to
do with pandas, tigers and tropical forests.
But preserving biodiversity Is a much bigger
job than protecting rainforests or charis-
matic magafauna. It's the job of protecting
all life-microscopic creepy-crawlies as well
as elephants and condors-and all life's
habitats-tundra, prairie and swamp as well
as forests.
Why care about red squirrels, for in-
stance?
"Do we have to save every subspecies?"
asked the U.S. Interior secretary, Manuel
Lujan Jr., on Thursday. He called for
changes in the Endangered Species Act, be-
cause it is blocking construction of a $200-
million telescope on Mt. Graham in Arizona,
the habitat for about 180 endangered red
squirrels.
Why care about tundra, swamp, blue bee-
tles or little bluestem grasses? Ecologists
give three reasons, which boll down to

0 This "bullet" symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1376.txt

23504
simple self-interest on three levels of esca-
lating importance.
Biodiversity has both immediate and po-
tential economic value. This is the argu.
ment most commonly put forward to defend
biodiversity, because it's the one our culture
is most ready to hear. It cites the impor-
tance of the industries most directly de-
pendent upon nature-fisheries, forestry,
tourism, recreation and the harvesting of
wild foods, medicines, dyes, rubber and
chemicals.
Some ecologists are so tired of this line of
reasoning that they refer wearily to the
"Madagascar periwinkle argument." That
obscure plant yields the drugs vincristine
and vinblastine, which have revolutionized
the treatment of leukemia. About a third of
all modern medicines have been derived
from molds and plants. The potential for
future discoveries is astounding. The total
number of species of life is somewhere be-
tween 10 million and 30 million, only 1.7
million of which we have named, only a
fraction of which we have tested for useful-
ness.
The economic value of biodiversity is very
real, but ecologists hate the argument be-
cause it is both arrogant and trivial. It as-
sumes that the Earth's millions of species
are here to serve the economic purposes of
just one species. And even if you buy that
idea, it misses the larger and more valuable
ways that nature serves us, even if we never
name or harvest its millions of species.
Biodiversity performs environmental serv-
ices beyond price. How would you like the
Job of pollinating all trillion or so apple
blossoms in New York state some sunny
afternoon in late May? It's conceivable,
maybe, that you could invent a machine to
do it, but inconceivable that the machine
could work as elegantly and cheaply as the
honeybee, much less make honey on the
side.
Suppose you were assigned to turn every
bit of dead organic matter, from fallen
leaves to urban garbage to road kills, into
nutrients that feed new life. Even if you
knew how, what would it cost? A host of
bacteria, molds, mites and worms do it for
free. If they ever stopped, all life would
stop. We would not last long if green plants
stopped turning our exhaled carbon dioxide
back into oxygen. Plants would not last long
if a few genera of soil bacteria stopped turn-
ing nitrogen from the air into nitrate fertil-
izer.
Human reckoning cannot put a value on
the services performed by the ecosystems of
earth. In addition to pollination and nutri-
ent recycling, these services include the
cleansing of air and water, flood control,
drought prevention, pest control, tempera-
ture regulation and maintenance of the
world's most valuable library-the genes of
all living organisms.
Biodiversity contains the accumulated
wisdom of nature and the key to its future.
If you ever wanted to destroy a society so
thoroughly that there would be no hope of
its resuscitation, you would burn its librar-
ies and kill its intellectuals. You would de-
stroy its knowledge. Nature's knowledge is
contained in the DNA within living cells.
The variety of that genetic information is
the driving engine of evolution, the immune
system for life, the source of adaptability-
not just the variety of species but also the
variety of individuals within each species.
Individuals are never quite alike. Each is
genetically unique mostly in subterranean
ways that will only appear in future genera-
tions. We recognize that is true of human

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
beings. Plant and animal breeders recognize
it in dogs, cattle, wheat, roses, apples. The
only reason they can bring forth bigger
fruits or sweeter smells or disease resistance
is that those traits are already present in
the genes carried by some individuals.
The amount of information in a single cell
is hard to comprehend. A simple one-celled
bacterium can carry genes for 1,000 traits, a
flowering plant for 400,000. Biologist E.O.
Wilson says the information in the genes of
an ordinary house mouse, if translated Into
printed letters, would fill all the 15 editions
of the Encyclopedia Britannica that have
been published since 1768. And each house
mouse is slightly different from all the
others.
The wealth of genetic information has
been selected over billions of years to fit the
ever-changing necessities of the planet. As
Earth's atmosphere filled with oxygen, as
land masses drifted apart, as humans in-
vented agriculture and altered the land,
there were lurking within individuals pieces
of genetic code that allowed them to defend
against or take advantage of the changes,
These individuals were more fit for the new
environment. They bred more successfully.
The population began to take on their char-
acteristics. New species came into being.
Biodiversity is the accumulation of all
life's past adaptations, and it is the basis for
all future adaptations (even those mediated
by human gene-splicers). That's why ecolo-
gists value biodiversity as one of the Earth's
great resources, as great as oil deposits or
topsoils or fresh water. It's why they take
seriously the loss of even the most insignifi-
cant of species; why they defend not only
the preservation of species but the preserva-
tion of populations within species, and why
they regard the current rate of human-in-
duced extinctions as an unparalleled catas-
trophe.
We don't know how many species we are
eliminating, because we don't know how
many species there are. It's a fair guess that
at the rate we are destroying habitat, espe-
cially, but not exclusively in the tropics,
we're pushing to extinction about one spe-
cies every hour. That doesn't count the spe-
cies whose populations are being reduced so
greatly that diversity within the population
is essentially gone. Earth has not seen a
spasm of extinctions like this for 65 million
years.
Biologists estimate that human beings
usurp, directly or indirectly, about 40% of
each year's total biological production (and
our population is on its way to another dou-
bling in 40 years). There is hardly a place on
Earth where people do not log, pave, spray,
drain, flood, graze, fish, plow, burn, drill,
spill or dump. There is no life zone, with the
possible exception of the deep ocean, that
we are not degrading. In poor countries blo-
diversity is being nickel-and-dimed to death;
in rich countries it is being billion-dollared
to death.
Besides "loss of diversity," biologists have
another name for this problem-"biotic ir-
poverishment." What is impoverished is not
Just biodiversity, it is also the human econo-
my and human spirit. Ecologist Paul Ehr-
lich describes biotic impoverishment this
way: "Unless current trends are reversed,
Americans will gradually be living in a
nation that has fewer warblers and ducks
and more starlings and herring gulls, fewer
native wildflowers and more noxious weeds,
fewer swallowtail butterflies and more cock-
roaches, smaller herds of elk and bigger
herds of rats, less edible seafood, less pro-
ductive croplands, less dependable supplies

September 6, 1990
of pure fresh water, more desert wastes and
dust storms, more frequent floods and more
uncomfortable weather."
Blodiversity can't be maintained by pro-
tecting a few species in a zoo, or by preserv-
ing greenbelts or national parks. To func-
tion properly nature needs more room than
that. It can maintain itself, however, with-
out human expense, without zookeepers,
park rangers, foresters or gene banks. All it
needs is to be left alone.
To provide their priceless polli-nation
service, the honeybees ask only that we stop
saturating the landscape with poisons, stop
paving the meadows where bee-feed grows
and leave them enough honey to get
through the winter.
To maintain our planet, our lives and our
future potential, the other species have
similar requests, all of which add up to:
Control yourselves. Control your numbers.
Control your greed. See yourselves as what
you are, part of an interdependent biologi-
cal community-the most intelligent part,
though you don't often act that way.
So act that way, either out of a moral re-
spect for something magnificant that you
did not create and do not understand, or out
of a practical interest in your own survival.
IRS DISTRICT DIRECTOR IS
RETIRING
HON. ROBERT H. MICHEL
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 6, 1990
Mr. MICHEL. Mr. Speaker, despite a general
belief that IRS employees are out to get the
taxpayer, the Internal Revenue Service has
many exemplary employees in its ranks. One
such employee is Ira Loeb, Director of the
Springfield District of the IRS, who recently
announced his retirement. Ira is the longest
serving director In the history of the Spring-
field office, and is the recipient of numerous
awards such as the prestigious Regional Com-
missioner's Award and several Assistant Com-
missioner Awards. His record as a public ser-
vent is laudable, and his presence at the helm
of the Springfield District IRS office will be
missed.
At the time, I would like to insert In the
RECORD an article citing Ira Loeb's distin-
guished career which appeared recently In the
State Journal Register.
IRS DISTRiCT DIRECTOR Is RETIRINO
(By Chris Dettro)
Ira Loeb, the longest-serving director in
the history of the Springfield district of the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service, announced
his retirement Wednesday, saying his suc-
cessor "will be a lucky man or woman."
Loeb will leave the IRS on Sept. 29. His
successor likely will be named before he
leaves and will be someone who has come
through the IRS' Executive Development
Program.
Loeb, who will turn 65 next month, has
been director of the district, which stretches
from Galesburg to Cairo, since Sept. 1, 1974.
He is the third district director in Spring-
field since the district system was devised.
A reproduction of the commission by
President Abraham Lincoln of a Springfield
predecessor, William 0. Green, as "collector
of Internal Revenue for the Ninth Collec-



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1377.txt

September 6, 1990
tion District of Illinois" dated March 4,
1863, hangs behind Loeb's desk.
"I'm not going to relax," Loeb said of his
retirement. "I want to do something where I
can use the skills I have in some kind of
community service work. I Just don't know
what yet."
Loeb shouldn't be short on offers. He has
already served on the United Way, the Com-
bined   Federal  Campaign,    Community
Action Agency and the Springfield Jewish
Federation while holding his full-time Job.
He also Is a trustee of Temple B'rith
Sholom.
He said he and his wife, Lenore, intend to
stay in Springfield. "Springfield is our
home," he said. "Two of our sons graduated
from Springfield High School, and before
this we had never lived anywhere longer
than four years-12 different cities."
Loeb has occupied an office decorated
with pictures of trips to Europe-including
pictures he took while serving with the U.S.
Army during World War I-for 16 years.
He said his greatest personal accomplish-
ment during that time was overseeing the
development of the IRS's Central Area Dis-
tribution Center in Bloomington.
"If it hadn't been for that, I probably
would have retired five years ago," he said.
"In the position of director, it's unusual to
do something from the ground up, because
most of the buildings and the system are al-
ready there and functioning when you
arrive."
Tax forms are shipped to a 23-state area
from the center. Loeb is responsible for the
work. of 1,600 employees in 14 offices
throughout the district, including    the
Springfield headquarters on West Washing-
ton Street.
"On the tax side, I'd have to say electronic
filing Is the biggest innovation," he said. "It
saves us so much work, and has reduced the
input error rate from 20 percent to 3 per-
cent. It's fast and virtually error-free."
More than 70,000 taxpayers filed their re-
turns electronically in the district last year.
Loeb  has   received  numerous   awards
during his 41-year federal career (25 with
the IRS), including three assistant commis-
sioner awards-one of the highest recogni-
tions given to IRS executives. He also re-
ceived a regional commissioner's award-the
highest award given to IRS employees in
the Midwest-for his work on the Blooming-
ton distribution center.
Loeb said he is aware that the U.S. tax
system is complicated and causes much con-
sternation among taxpayers.
"There have been more than 150 tax law
changes by Congress in the 16 years I've
been director-some small, some not so
small," he said. "We're conscious of the
burden on the public, particularly the small
businessman.
"But 100 million Americans get to sit
down every year at their kitchen table In
their own home and compute their share of
what It costs to run the country, with no
one looking over their shoulder," he said.
"And most do it honestly."
If he could do one thing before he retired,
he said, "I'd convince the American people
we aren't the enemy. The millions of people
who pay their taxes are the victims of the
few who cheat.
"I'd Just like people to understand we're
not the bad guys. Talk to the people who
have dealt with us. You'll find most have
been pleasantly surprised."

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
HONORING JIM JIRSA,
RESIDENT OF BALDWIN PARK
HON. ESTEBAN EDWARD TORRES
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 6, 1990
Mr. TORRES. Mr. Speaker, on September
10, 1990, Mr. Jim Jirsa will celebrate his 100th
birthday. For this occasion, the community of
Baldwin Park will organize a recognition day
for him.
When Jim Jirsa and his wife May moved to
Baldwin Park in 1945, they encountered
turkey ranches, chicken farms, and orange
groves. Signs warned of penalties for orange
picking and it only cost a nickel to go down-
town on the old, electric, red cars. Mr. Jirsa,
along with his wife of 73 years, has watched
the city's population grow from 16,000 to
more than 60,000.
Mr. Jirsa has done more than watch the city
change; he has been a dynamic force behind
the changes. He set the wheels In motion for
the senior citizen's programs by Incorporating
the Committee on Aging in 1977. A 1908
graduate of Chicago Business College, he has
used his background in bookkeeping and ac-
counting to help various community organiza-
tions. He served as treasurer for the Commit-
tee on Aging, the Senior Citizen Nutrition pro-
gram and the American Legion In which he is
a life member.
In addition Mr. Jirsa also served as a visitor
on the Advisory Commission and as recrea-
tion and parks commissioner for Baldwin Park.
In 1981 he was Senior Citizen of the Year and
was honored on the 16th annual Older Ameri-
cans Recognition Day by the L.A. County
Board of Supervisors. He has also worked
closely with the Baldwin Park Adult School.
Mr. Jirsa is the last remaining WWI veteran
in Barracks No. 1643, the Baldwin Park post
for veterans of WWI. In 1918, he was 28
years old and a newlywed of 14 months when
he reported to Camp Grant in Rockford, IL. As
a member of the 161st Depot Brigade, he
worked as an orderly delivering transfers and
telegrams for a monthly salary of about $8
after deductions.
Mr. Jirsa attributes his long life to days filled
with responsibility both at home and within the
community. Also, he says, he drinks milk.
Mr. Speaker, at this time I ask that my col-
leagues please join me in saluting Mr. Jim
Jirsa for his outstanding community efforts in
Baldwin Park. As a visible voice in the com-
munity, he has been part of the leadership, an
active force, for Baldwin Park.
CELEBRATING        THE      WAYNE
MANOR'S SILVER ANNIVERSA-
RY CHARITY BALL
HON. ROBERT A. ROE
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 6, 1990
Mr. ROE. Mr. Speaker, it is with distinct

23505
pleasure that I rise today to pay tribute to a
family who has spent 35 years In business
faithfully and generously serving the people of
my Eighth Congressional District of New
Jersey. The Jachera family have been in the
restaurant business since 1955 and for the
last 25 years have been the proud proprietors
of the Wayne Manor which will celebrate its
silver anniversary on Friday, September 7,
1990.
To commemorate this event the Wayne
Manor will host a charity ball and in typically
unselfish behavior all proceeds will be donat-
ed by Ted Jachera, owner of the Manor, to
two very worthy causes-St. Joseph's Home
for the Elderly of the Little Sisters of the Poor
In Totowa, NJ and the Huntington's disease
unit of the Terence Cardinal Cooke Health
Care Center In New York City. Honorary chair-
man for the ball is His Eminence John Cardi-
nal O'Connor, archbishop of New York.
This silver anniversary notes not only 25
years of successful business, but 25 years of
active participation In, and devotion to, a com-
munity and Individuals who have had the good
fortune to have come In contact with Ted Ja-
chera and his family. The two charities which
are being benefited by this dinner dance per-
form a great deal of important work In the
area, ensuring that the unfortunate victims of
disease and poverty have care and shelter.
The Little Sisters of the Poor dedicate their
lives to taking care of the aged poor at St. Jo-
seph's Home for the Elderly. These sisters
provide the personal care and spiritual com-
fort which gives the aged the dignity and kind-
ness which they deserve and so often are
denied during the later stages along life's jour-
ney. Among the sisters' vows Is that of hospi-
tality-welcome of the aged regardless of
race, religion, color, or natural origin. Devotion
to the care and consolation of your fellow
man has no higher calling and is truly God's
work.
Huntington's disease Is a hereditary brain
disorder that slowly erodes the victim's mental
capacity and physical control. In 1988, the
Archdiocese of New York, under the leader-
ship of John Cardinal O'Connor, established a
unit for the care of Huntington's disease pa-
tients at the Terence Cardinal Cooke Health
Care Center. Care at the Cooke Center is
geared to the unique needs of the Hunting.
ton's patient. It Is believed that this unit will
serve as a model for others across the Nation
and around the world. The charity ball will
help to make the lives of the aged poor and
Huntington's disease patients a bit more com-
fortable and hopeful. What better way to
share the joy and success of 25 years In busi-
ness than by helping those less fortunate.
The Jachera family began its long career In
the restaurant business in 1955. Louis Ja-
chera, laid off from work at the Tide Water Oil
Co., and knowing that he must provide a living
for his family, invested In a tavern called the
HI-Ho Club in Wayne, NJ, and moved his
family into the apartment above the club. For
10 years, Louis and Anlela Jachera operated
the club with the help of their sons Ted and
Stan.

39-059 0-91-44 (Pt. 16)



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1378.txt

23506
In 1964 Ted and Stan decided to set up
their own business in association with Jerry
Cardillo who lent his knowledge of the cater-
ing business and experience with Sam Cuccin-
ello at the Rustic Lodge and was of tremen-
dous assistance to the Jachera brothers. After
a full year of work to complete the original
section of the building, the Wayne Manor
opened in July 1965. The building consisted of
two rooms and an office. The Empire Room
on the upper level opened first and was split
into two separate rooms-the Princess and
Duchess. By the end of the year the down-
stairs room opened and was called the Manor
Room, divided into the Apollo and Venus
Rooms.
The official grand opening occurred on
August 9, 1965, and was one of the happiest
days of Louis Jachera's life. He was able to
witness his sons opening their own business.
The opening would nevjr have been possible
without his proud supprt and generous finan-
cial backing. The HI-Ho Club was sold in Oc-
tober 1965 and Louit, only shortly there after
died of cancer on November 13, 1965.
The Manor expanded in 1969 adding an ex-
tension to the building and currently, after a
great deal of hard work and renovations, can
accommodate up to 2,000 people. There are
eight banquet rooms, five kitchens, and an
indoor and outdoor chapel.
In 1977, Ted and Stan Jachera were joined
by their brother John who left IBM and began
working with them full time at the Wayne
Manor and is now in partnership with Ted.
Ted's children Kathleen, Robert, and Thomas
all work full time in the establishment and plan
to continue the family business. John's chil-
dren Linda and Steven are part-time employ-
ees as well.
Stanley Jachera and Jerry Cardillo have
since passed away. They are both greatly
missed and will always be remembered.
In addition to the coming Silver Anniversary
Charity Ball, another silver anniversary was re-
cently held at the Wayne Manor. The Martens,
who on August 4, 1965, were the first couple
to use the Manor for their wedding reception,
renewed their vows on their 25th wedding an-
niversary. Again, in recognition of and grati-
tude to the people who have partronized his
business over the years, Ted Jachera offered
the use of the indoor chapel with his compli-
ments.
Mr. Speaker, it is gestures such as this and
the charity ball which often go unnoticed in
the community, but they demonstrate the sin-
cerest commitment and devotion to people
which responsible businessmen across the
Nation should emulate and which this particu-
lar community can be proud of. I know that
you join with me and the rest of my col-
leagues In the House in extending my hear-
tiest congratulations to the Jachera family on
their achievements and generosity and for
their continued success and prosperity.

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
INTRODUCTION OF A BILL TO
MOVE THE COUNTIES OF CUL-
PEPER. LOUISA, AND       ORANGE
FROM    THE EASTERN JUDICIAL
DISTRICT     OF    VIRGINIA     TO
THE   WESTERN     JUDICIAL    DIS-
TRICT
HON. D. FRENCH SLAUGHTER, JR.
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 6, 1990
Mr. SLAUGHTER of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to introduce a bill which will en-
hance the access to the Federal courts for
some 70,000 residents of my congressional
district. Specifically, the bill will move the
counties of Culpeper, Louisa, and Orange
from the eastern judicial district of Virginia to
the western district of Virginia.
Currently, litigants and lawyers are required
to travel some distance to Alexandria or Rich-
mond to access the Federal court. In light of
the distance required to attend court, and the
traffic and parking problems associated with
such travel, there exists a reluctance to use
the Federal court. Since these counties, once
moved, would be assigned to the Charlottes-
ville division of the western district, travel to a
Federal court will be more convenient thereby
enhancing utilization of the court.
The bill has the enthusiastic support of the
bar associations of the three affected counties
as well as the chief judge of the western dis-
trict and the resident judge in Charlottesville.
I look forward to working with the Judiciary
Committee to move this bill to enactment and
provide the relief necessary for the people of
Culpeper, Louisa, and Orange.
OLD GLORY
HON. ANDY IRELAND
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 6, 1990
Mr. IRELAND. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
share with my colleagues a fine and stirring
poem written by my constituent, Mr. Howard
Sessoms of Homeland, FL.
I met Mr. Sessoms while I was traveling in
my district this summer. We visited, and he
gave me a copy of a poem he had written
about that great symbol of freedom, the Amer-
Ican flag.
As I reflect on the debates we had eadler
this year about the so-called right to dese-
crate our flag, I wish that all of my friends
here in the Congress could see the wisdom
contained in this simple poem by a true patri-
ot.
Mr. Speaker, with the House's permission, I
wish to reprint "Should We Bum The Flag."
SHOULD WE BURN THE FLAG
Today as I sit and meditate
And think back through the years
Of where we "were" and where we "are"
now
I can hardly hold back the tears.
Can we still sing the Star Spangled Banner
Is this still a nation with Pride?
Have we lost all our morals and values?
Seems something in our nation has died.

September 6, 1990
Our Flag should be a symbol
We should fly it high with Pride
Men have followed it into battle
And for it men have died.
You ask, "should one be allowed to burn
it?"
To express a point of view
To really get an answer to your question
Let me tell you what do do.
Ask those who died on Iwo Jima
Or the "Death March" on Bataan
Ask those who died in Korea
Ask those who fell in Viet-Nam.
Ask those entombed in Pearl Harbor
Ask those who were shot from the skies
Ask those who came home with limbs miss-
ing
Ask those who came home without eyes.
Ask those who died at Normandy
Ask General McArthur or Ike
Why not ask some of your veterans
Who under this banner did fight.
Now, I am a Pearl Harbor survivor
I've fought for our Flag and our land
And to see anyone that's so disloyal
I'll stand up and condemn any man.
It might be a long-haired hippie
Or someone in tuxedo or rags
But despicable is the man who lives in this
land
And burns our American Flag.
Within these lines is an answer
Let your heart and your conscience decide
Should we burn our Star Spangled Banner
For which so many Americans have died?
UNITED STATES-MEXICO FREE
TRADE AGREEMENT
HON. DONALD J. PEASE
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 6, 1990
Mr. PEASE. Mr. Speaker, President Bush is
expected to notify Congress this month that
he plans to negotiate a free trade agreement
[FTA] with Mexico. In recent hearings on this
subject held by the Ways and Means Trade
Subcommittee, I expressed certain misgivings
I had about a United States-Mexico FTA. I
argued that, while an FTA arrangement with
Mexico might be good for the overall econom-
Ic health of both nations, Mexico's low wage
base might have a depressing effect on
wages in the United States, especially in the
manufacturing sector.
Prof. Robert Dunn, a professor at George
Washington University, makes a similar case
In a Washington Post article, which Is printed
below. It should be required reading for every-
one involved in these bilateral trade negotia-
tions.
[From the Washington Post, Aug. 1, 1990]
LoW-PAID WORKERS WOULD Losz EvxN MORE
IN FREE-TRADE PACT WITH MEXICO
(By Robert M. Dunn, Jr.)
A free-trade pact between the United
States and Mexico is being portrayed as
little more than an extension of the U.S.-
Canada free trade deal of two years ago.
It s no such thing.
Free trade between the United States and
Mexico would affect the distribution of
income within the United States in ways
that need careful consideration before such
a system s implemented. The U.S.-Canada



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1379.txt

September 6, 1990
pact did not produce these effects, so this
problem did not arise two years ago.
Although free trade between the United
States and Mexico would increase total in-
comes in this country, it would also redis-
tribute income away from unskilled and
semi-skilled labor and toward professional
and technical labor and capital. Because the
"winners" would be people whose incomes
are already above average, while the
"losers" would start with below average in-
comes, this arrangement would make the
distribution of U.S. incomes more unequal.
This is because of the types of products
each country would export to the other, and
because of the resulting expansion of some
industries and contraction of others. It is an
argument first developed 70 years ago by
two Swedish economists, Eli Hecksher and
Bertril Ohlin.
They noted that when there is free trade
between two countries when one has an
abundance of labor and the other an abun.
dance of capital, each will export products
that use a great deal of its abundant input.
Labor-abundant countries export textiles
because that industry uses a great deal of
labor. Countries with large amounts of cap-
ital export products such as chemicals that
require a lot of capital.
In the U.S..Mexico case, this means that
the United States will import labor-inten-
sive goods such as garments and shoes from
Mexico and will export capital and profes-
sional and technical labor-intensive goods
such as computers and machinery. With an
underemployed population of about 90 mil-
lion people, Mexico could produce a huge
volume of garments and shoes.
This pattern of trade would mean that
labor-intensive industries in the United
States would shrink, while capital and tech-
nical labor-using industries would expand.
The U.S. demand for unskilled and semi-
skilled labor would fall, while the demand
for capital and for highly educated labor
would grow. As a result, U.S. wage rates for
unskilled and semi-skilled labor would fall,
while returns to capital and to professional
and technical labor would rise.
The U.S.-Canada free-trade agreement did
not produce this effect because these two
countries have very similar economies. U.S.
labor is not threatened by competition from
Canadians whose wages are similar to those
prevailing here, but competition with Mexi-
can labor is a very different matter.
Restraining laid-off workers, with the goal
of making them high-income skilled work-
ers, is often seen as the answer, but experi-
ence with such programs has been very dis-
appointing. Most of the affected workers
have limited educational backgrounds, and
many are not young. Despite retraining ef-
forts, they generally have ended up with
lower incomes than in the Jobs they lost.
There is a solution to this income redistri.
bution problem, but it is difficult to imple-
ment. Because total U.S. incomes would un-
doubtedly rise as a result of free trade with
Mexico, the winners would gain more dol-
lars than the losers would lose. This makes
it possible for the winners to compensate
the losers and still gain. If, for example,
half of the population gains $100 each from
free trade, while the other half loses $50 per
person, the winners could pay the losers $50
each, thus restoring their original incomes,
while still having net gains of $50. If those
benefiting from free trade with Mexico paid
part of their gains as additional taxes, and if
the revenues were used to compensate those
whose Incomes would decline, this would be
an arrangement in which nobody loses.

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
The compensation approach Is theoreti-
cally simple, but politically and administra-
tively difficult. It implies a more active
income redistribution policy from Washing.
ton, which is not a politically popular idea.
It is also far from easy to measure the gains
and losses with precision, so the compensa-
tion would be approximate at best. In any
event, this approach has never been serious-
ly considered by the Congress as part of
U.S. trade policy.
Until it is clear that compensation will be
provided, the AFL-CIO and other represent-
atives of labor are correct In opposing the
U.S.-Mexico free trade proposals. Most
Americans are not unskilled or semi-skilled
and would clearly gain from this arrange-
ment, but the losers would be irrational if
they did not oppose it,
There is, however, one way in which U.S.
labor and the AFL-CIO would gain from
free trade with Mexico, but it only partially
offsets these income distribution effects.
Because Mexico is on the opposite side of
the  Hecksher-Ohlin   process  from   the
United States, it would export labor-inten-
sive goods, and experience an increase in
wage rates. Higher Mexican wages would
reduce pressures to emigrate, thus cutting
the number of illegal immigrants coming to
the United States to compete with U.S.
workers.
For years, the AFL-CIO has been looking
for ways to reduce competition from foreign
workers within our economy, and now it
could have one, although it is a very expen-
sive solution to the problem of illegal immi.
gration. It requires trade flows that would
reduce U.S. wage rates, which defeats the
original reason for trying to keep foreign
workers out.
Free trade with Mexico or the free inter-
national mobility of labor would produce
the same income distribution effects. U.S.
wages fall, while those in Mexico rise. The
rational AFL-CIO goal is to both avoid free
trade and keep foreign workers out of this
country.
The United States faces a difficult dilem-
ma in designing a policy for its trade with
developing countries. On one hand, this
country wants the gains in total income
that result from free trade and would also
like to encourage the growth of these econo-
mies and reduce pressures for their workers
to try to come here. On the other side, there
is already strong evidence that the distribu-
tion of U.S. incomes has become more un-
equal in the last two decades, and free trade
with countries such as Mexico would make
that problem worse.
If the United States is going to pursue
free-trade discussions with Mexico as well as
other Latin American countries, as suggest-
ed recently by the White House, serious
thought must be given to providing compen-
sation.
TRIBUTE TO JUDGE WILLIAM F.
LANAM
HON. TOM LANTOS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 6, 1990
Mr. LANTOS. Mr. Speaker, I invite my col-
leagues in the Congress to join me in paying
tribute to Judge William F. Lanam, a distin-
guished justice in the Superior Court of San
Mateo County. After 20 years of exemplary ju-
dicial service and a notable career of service

23507
to the citizens of San Mateo County, Judge
Lanam will retire this month.
In the Superior Court, where he has served
since January 1973, Judge Lanam was presid-
ing judge, assistant presiding judge, and held
other assignments on domestic, juvenile,
meotal, criminal, and civil calendars. He dealt
with a number of complex litigation cases, in-
cluding the publicized Tinsley desegregation
case and the massive Shell oil case involving
some 250 Insurance companies.
Judge Lanam's service to our community
did not begin with his appointment to the Su-
perior Court in 1973. For 2 years prior to that
time, he was a municipal court judge In the
central district of San Mateo County. During
his tenure, he initiated procedures which sub-
stantially reduced delays in bringing cases to
trial, which has contributed significantly to the
current status of San Mateo County courts as
having the most up-to-date calendars in the
State of California.
While he was executive director of the San
Mateo County Bar Association, he developed
the private defender program to provide pd-
vate counsel for accused Indigent individuals
on trial. Since the Inception of the program In
1969, it has been under contract with the San
Mateo Board of Supervisors, and it has re-
ceived awards of merit from the American Bar
Association.
Judge Lanam also served as a deputy dis-
trict attorney in San Mateo County from 1960
to 1962 and again In 1967. From 1962 to
1967 he was In private practice, and during
that time he was named as the first juvenile
court referee for San Mateo County by a
unanimous vote of the Superior Court judges.
William F. Lanam was born In Hawaii on
July 28, 1929, but spent his formative years in
San Francisco. He graduated from the City
College of San Francisco, San Francisco
State College, and the University of San Fran-
cisco School of Law.
He met his wife while both were students at
Commerce High School of San Francisco.
They have been married for 40 years and
have lived In Burlingame for the past 30 years.
They are the parents of 6 children and have
11 grandchildren-all living In the San Francis-
co Bay Area.
A member and past chairman of the judicial
ethics and judicial elections committees for
the California Judges Association, Judge
Lanam Is the author of Judicial Elections
Handbook. He formed and coordinated the
San Mateo County Committee for Fair Judicial
Elections and established the format which
has been adopted by other counties through-
out the State. He also organized and coordi-
nated the joint committee on mental health
and the law, which is comprised of members
of the legal and mental health professions. An
Indication of his concern for others was his
selection for the People Who Care Award.
Mr. Speaker, Judge William F. Lanam has
been a steadfast and devoted public servant.
The citizens of San Mateo County owe him a
debt of gratitude for his public-spirited contri-
bution to the courts and government of our
area. I urge my colleagues to join me In hon-
oring him now as he retires from the bench.
We wish him well now as he pursues other
activities.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 1380.txt

23508
AG LAB'S DIRECTOR READY
FOR RETIREMENT
HON. ROBERT H. MICHEL
OF ILLINOIS
