Rogers, Okla.   Sparkman
Romjue          Spence
Rutherford      Starnes, Ala.
Ryan            Steagall
Sabath          Stearns, N. H.
Sacks           Stefan
Sandager        Sullivan
Sasscer         Sumners, Tex.
Satterfield     Sweeney
Schuetz         Talle
Schulte         Tarver
Schwert         Taylor
Scrugham        Tenerowicz
Secrest         Terry
Shanley         Thomas, N. J.
NAYS-83
Elston          Knutson
Evans           Landis
Faddis          Lewis, Ohio
Gartner         Ludlow
Gillie          McDowell
Grant, Ind.     McGregor
Gross           McLeod
Halleck         -Marshall
Harness         Martin, Iowa
Hartley         Mason
Hawks           Michener
Hess            Miller
Hoffman         Murray
Jeffries        Polk
Jenkins, Ohio   Reece, Tenn.
Johns           Reed, Ill.
Johnson, IlI.   Reed, N. Y.
Jones, Ohio     Rockefeller
Jonkman -       Routzohn
Keefe           Schafer, Wis.
Kinzer          Schiffier

NOT VOTING-16

Thomas, Tex.
Thomason
Tibbott
Tolan
Treadway
Van Zandt
Vincent, Ky.
Vinson, Ga.
Voorhis, Calif.
Wadsworth
Walter
Ward
Warren
Weaver
Welch
West
Whelchel
White, Idaho
Whittington
Wigglesworth
Williams, Del.
Williams, Mo.
Wood
Woodrum, Va.
Youngdah!
Zimmerman
Seccombe
Shafer, Mich.
Short
Smith, Ohio
Springer
Sumner, 1ll.
Sweet
Taber
Thill
Thorkelson
Tinkham
Vorys, Ohio
Vreeland
Wheat
White, Ohio
Winter
Wolcott
Wofenden, Pa.
Wolverton, N. J.
Woodruff, Mich.

Arnold           Darrow           Fernandez        Risk
Caldwell         Dempsey          Garrett          Schaefer, Ill.
Chapman          Dies             Murdock, Utah    Sutphin
Collins          Ellis            O'Day            Wallgren
So the amendment was agreed to.
The Clerk announped the following pairs until further
notice:
General pairs:
Mr. Dempsey with Mr. Darrow.
Mr. Garrett with Mr. Risk.
Mr. Fernandez with Mr. Sutphin.
Mr. Wallgren with Mrs. O'Day.
Mr. Murdock of Utah with Mr. Chapman.
Mr. Collins with Mr. Schaefer of Illinois.
Mr. Dies with Mr. Ellis.
The. result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
The SPEAKER. The question is on the substitute com-
mittee amendment as amended for the original bill.
The question was taken; and the committee amendment, as
amended, was agreed to, as follows:
Be it enacted, etc., That (a) the Congress hereby declares that it
Is imperative to increase and train the personnel of the armed forces
of the United States.
(b) The Congress further declares that in a free society the obli-
gations and privileges of military training and service should be
shared generally in accordance with a fair and just system of se-
lective compulsory military training and service.
(c) The Congress further declares, In accordance with our tra-
ditional military policy as expressed in the National Defense Act of
1916, as amended, that it is essential that the strength and organi-
zation of the National Guard, as ans integral part of the first-line
defenses of this Nation, be at all times maintained and assured. To
this end, it is the intent of the Congress that whenever the Con-
gress shall determine that troops are needed for the national secur-
ity in excess of those of the Regular Army and those in active
training under the provisions of this act, the National Guard of the
United States, or such part thereof as may be necessary, shall be
ordered to active Federal service and continued therein so long as
such necessity exists.
(d) The President is authorized to issue a call as soon as possible
after the date of enactment of this act, and another call at any
time after January 1, 1941, for qualified men between the ages of

18 and 35 to volunteer for training and service for 12 months in
the land and naval forces of the United States under this act.
Each such call shall be for not more than 400,000 men. The Presi-
dent is authorized to induct into such forces for such training and
service so many of the men who volunteer pursuant to such call as
are not in excess of the number of men for whom the call was is-
sued. If, upon the expiration of 60 days after the issuance of either
of such calls, the President finds that the number of qualified men
who have volunteered pursuant to such call is less than the number
for whom the call was issued, he is authorized to select and Induct
into such forces such number of qualified men selected in accord-
ance with section 3 (a) as, when added to the number who have
volunteered pursuant to such call, will equal the number for whom
he issued such call. Until the expiration of 60 days after the date
of issuance by the President of the second call authorized by this
subsection, no man shall be inducted into the land and naval
forces of the United States under any provisions of this act other
than this subsection. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed
to require or postpone during either of such 60-day periods, the
registration, classification, or selection of persons to be adopted
for training and service under this act.
(e) Quotas of men to be furnished for such training and service
shall be determined for each State, Territory, and the District of
Columbia, and for subdivisions thereof, on the basis of the actual
number of men in the several States, Territories and the District
of Columbia, and the subdivisions thereof, on the basis of the
actual number of men in the several States, Territories, and the
District of Columbia, and the subdivisions thereof, who are liable
for such training and service but who are not deferred after classi-
fication; credits shall be given in fixing such quotas for residents
of such subdivisions who are in the land and naval forces of the
United States on the date fixed for determining such quotas, and
those who volunteer during the 60-day volunteer period; and until
the actual numbers necessary for determining the quotas are
known the quotas may be based on estimates and subsequent ad-
justments therein made when such actual numbers are known; all
in accordance with such rules and regulations as the President may
prescribe.
SEC. 2. Except as provided in section 5 (a), all male citizens and
all male aliens residing in the United States or its possessions, who
are between the ages of 21 and 45 on the day or days fixed for regis-
tration, shall present themselves for registration, and shall register
at such times and places and in such manner and by such age
groups as shall be determined by regulations prescribed hereunder.
SEC. (3). (a) Every male citizen, and every male alien residing in
the United States or its possessions who has declared his intention
to become a citizen, between the ages of 21 and 45, who is not ex-
cepted herein from registration, shall be liable for training and
service in the land and naval forces of the United States. The
President is authorized to select for training and service in the
manner herein provided, and to induct into the land and naval
forces of the United States, such number of men as in his judg-
ment, whether a state of war exists or not, is required In the
national Interest for such forces: Provided, That any person, re-
gardless of race or color, between the ages of 18 and 35 shall be
afforded an opportunity to volunteer for induction into the land
or naval forces of the United States for the training and service
described In subsection (b) : Provided further, That no man shall
be inducted for training and service under this act unless and until
he is acceptable to the land or naval forces for such training and
service: Provided, That such induction shall not be effected until
adequate provision shall have been made for the proper housing of
the men selected for training and service, the term housing to in-
clude such sanitary facilities, adequate water supply, heating and
lighting systems, medical care and hospital accommodations, as are
in general accepted by the United States Public Health Service as
essential to public and personal health: Provided further, That
voluntary enlistments In the land and naval forces of the United
States, Including the reserve components thereof, shall continue as
now provided by law: Provided further, That except in time of war
there shall not be in active training or service in the land and naval
forces of the United States at any one time under the provisions of
subsection (b) more than 1,000,000 men inducted under the provi-
sions of this act: Provided further, That persons inducted into the
land forces of the United States pursuant to this act shall not be
employed beyond the limits of the Western Hemisphere except in
the Territories and possessions of the United States, including the
Philippine Islands: Provided further, That in the case of any per-
son who, during the year 1940, entered upon attendance for the
academic year 1940-41-
(1) at any college or university which grants a degree in arts or
science, to pursue a course of instruction satisfactory completion of
which is prescribed by such college or university as a prerequisite
to either class of such degrees; or
(2) at any university described in paragraph (1), to pursue a
course of instruction to the pursuit of which a degree in arts or
science is prescribed by such university as a prerequisite;
if, during his attendance at such college or university while pur-
suing such course of instruction, such person is selected for service
and training prior to the end of such academic year, or prior to
July 1, 1941, whichever occurs first, his induction into the land or
naval forces shall, upon his request, be deferred until the end of
such academic year, but in no event later than July 1, 1941. Men
selected for training and service shall be assigned to camps or
units of the land and naval forces of the United States.

11750



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0061.txt

1940                                   CONGRESSIONAL
(b) If and so long as the United States is not at war, each man
selected for training and service shall serve for a training period of
12 consecutive months: Provided, That if during his training period
the Congress shall declare that the national interest is imperiled,
he shall be subject to service until the Congress shall declare the
national interest permits his being relieved from active service.
(c) Each man, after completion of his training period, shall be
transferred to a reserve component of the land or naval forces of
the United States, and until the expiration of 10 years after such
transfer or until he reaches the age of 45 or until he is discharged,
whichever occurs first, he shall be deemed a member of such Reserve
component and be subject to such additional training as may now
or hereafter be prescribed by law: Provided, That every man upon
completing 12 months' training and service in the land forces, in
time of peace, shall be given the option, if a vacancy exists in the
National Guard or the Regular Army to which he can be assigned,
of serving a 2-year enlistment, and satisfactory service of such
enlistment will exempt him from further duty in the Reserve com-
ponents of the Army of the United States in time of peace.
(d) Men during their training and service period, as provided
for in this section, shall receive the same pay, allowances, and
other benefits, pensions, compensation, and disability allowances
as are provided by law for enlisted men of like grades and length
of service of that component of the land and naval forces to which
they are assigned and thereafter they shall receive the same benefits
provided by law in like cases for members of the Reserve com-
ponents of the land and naval forces to which they have been
transferred. Men in training and service shall have an opportunity
to qualify for promotion.
(e) (1) The monthly base pay of enlisted men of the Army shall
be as follows: Enlisted men of the first grade, $126; enlisted men
of the second grade, $84; enlisted men of the third grade, $72;
enlisted men of the fourth grade, $60; enlisted men of the fifth
grade, $54; enlisted men of the sixth grade, $36; enlisted men of
the seventh grade, $30; except that the monthly base pay of
enlisted men with less than 4 months' service during their first
enlistment period and of enlisted men of the seventh grade whose
inefficiency or other unfitness has been determined under regula-
tions prescribed by the Secretary of War, shall be $21. The pay
for specialists' ratings, which shall be In addition to monthly base
pay, shall be as follows: First class, $30; second class, $25; third
class, $20; fourth class, $15; fifth class, $6; sixth class, $3. Enlisted
men of the Army shall receive, as a permanent addition to their
pay, an increase of 10 percent of their base pay and pay for
specialists' ratings upon completion of the first 4 years of service,
and an additional increase of 5 percent of such base pay and pay
for specialists' ratings for each 4 years of service thereafter, but
the total of such increases shall not exceed 25 percent. Enlisted
men of the Navy and Marine Corps shall be entitled to receive at
least the same pay and allowances as provided for enlisted men
in similar grades in the Army.
(2) The pay for specialists' rating received by an enlisted man
of the Army at the time of his retirement shall be included in
the computation of his retired pay.
(3) The pay of enlisted men of the sixth grade of the National
Guard for each armory drill period, and for each day of partic-
ipation in exercises under sections 94, 97, and 99 of the National
Defense Act, shall be $1.20.
(4) No back pay or allowances shall accrue by reason of this
act for any period prior to the date of its enactment.
(5) Nothing in this act shall operate to reduce the pay now
being received by any retired enlisted man.
(6) The provisions of this section shall be effective from the
date of enactment of this act to May 15, 1945. During such period
all laws and parts of laws insofar as the same are inconsistent here-
with or in conflict with the provisions hereof are hereby suspended:
Provided, That nothing contained in this or any other act shall
be construed as forbidding the payment of compensation by any
person, firm, or corporation to persons inducted or enlisted as
provided herein or to members of the Reserve components of the
land and naval forces of the United States below the grade of
captain now on or hereafter placed on any type of active duty,
which persons and members were, prior to their induction or en-
listment, or being placed on active duty, receiving compensation
from such person, firm, or corporation, during the time they
are in training and service hereunder or on active duty under
the provisions of law.
SEc. 4. (a) The selection of men subject to the training and
service provided for in section 3 (other than those who are volun-
tarily inducted pursuant to this act) shall be made in an impartial
manner from the men between the ages of 21 and 45 who are liable
for such training and service and who at the time of selection are
registered and classified but not deferred: Provided, That in the
selection and training of men as well as in the interpretation and
execution of the provisions of this act there shall be no discrimina-
tion against any person on account of race, creed, or color.
(b) Quotas of men to be furnished for such training and service
shall be determined for each State, Territory, and the District of
Columbia, and for subdivisions thereof, on the basis of the actual
number of men in the several States, Territories, and the District of
Columbia, and the subdivisions thereof, who are liable for such
training and service but who are not deferred after classification;
credits shall be given in fixing such quotas for residents of such
subdivisions who are in the land and naval forces of the United
States on the date fixed for determining such quotas; and until the

RECORD-HOUSE

11751

actual numbers necessary for determining the quotas are known,
the quotas may be based on estimates and subsequent adjustments
therein made when such actual numbers are known; all in accord-
ance with such rules and regulations as the President may prescribe.
SEc. 5. (a) Commissioned officers, warrant officers, field clerks, pay
clerks, and enlisted men of the Regular Army, the Navy, the
Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, the federally recognized active
National Guard, the Officers' Reserve Corps, the Regular Army Re-
serve, the Enlisted Reserve Corps, the Naval Reserve, and the Marine
Corps Reserve; cadets, United States Military Academy, men who
have been properly appointed and qualified, and who have been
accepted, for admittance commencing with the academy year next
succeeding such acceptance to the United States Military Academy
as cadets, but only during the continuance of such acceptance; mid-
shipmen, United States Naval Academy, and cadets, United States
Coast Guard Academy; and cadets of advanced course, senior divi-
sion, Reserve Officers' Training Corps; diplomatic representatives,
technical attaches of foreign embassies and legations, consuls gen-
eral, consuls, vice consuls, and consular agents of foreign countries,
residing in the United States, who are not citizens of the United
States, and who have not declared their intention to become citi-
zens of the United States, shall not be registered. No exceptions
from registration shall continue after the cause therefor ceases to
exist: Provided, That the following persons will be excepted from
registration under section 2 and from liability to serve in any re-
serve component of the land or naval forces of the United States
in time of peace and from liability for the training and service pro-
vided for in section 3 (b), but such persons shall in time of war
be subject to registration under section 2 and shall be liable to
serve in the land and naval forces of the United States:
(1) Any man who has completed or who will complete at least
3 consecutive years' satisfactory service in the Regular Army, Navy,
Marine Corps, or Coast Guard as an officer, warrant officer, or en-
listed man before or after the time fixed for registration or par-
tially before and partially after the time fixed for registration.
(2) Any officer, warrant officer, or enlisted man of the active Na-
tional Guard who has completed or who will complete at least 1
year's satisfactory service In active Federal service as an officer,
warrant officer, or enlisted man of the Army of the United States,
and subsequent thereto at least 2 years' consecutive satisfactory
service as an officer, warrant officer, or enlisted man in the Regular
Army or in the active National Guard, before or after or partially
before and partially after the time fixed for registration.
(3) Any man who is an officer, warrant officer, or enlisted man In
the active National Guard at the time fixed for registration, and
who completes at least 6 consecutive years' satisfactory service
therein as an officer, warrant officer, or enlisted man, before or after
or partially before and partially after the time fixed for registration.
(4) Any man who is in the Officers' Reserve Corps on the eligible
list at the time fixed for registration, and who completes at least
6 consecutive years' satisfactory service therein on the eligible list
before or after the time fixed for registration or partially before
or partially after the time fixed for registration: Provided, That
the persons enumerated in this paragraph and paragraph 3 while
in Reserve components of the land or naval forces of the United
States may be ordered or called to active duty in such forces.
(b) The Vice President of the United States, and the officers,
legislative, executive, and Judicial, except judges of Inferior courts
not of record, of the United States, and of the several States, Ter-
ritories, and the District of Columbia, while holding such official
positions, shall be deferred, which deferred classification may be
waived from training and service in the land and naval forces of
the United States.
(c) Regular or duly ordained ministers of religion, and students
who are preparing for the ministry in theological or divinity schools
recognized as such for more than 1 year prior to the date of en-
actment of this act, shall be exempt from training and service (but
not from registration) under this act.
(d) The President Is authorized under such regulations as he
may prescribe to defer training and service In the land and naval
forces of the United States of those men whose employment in
industry, agriculture, or other occupations or employment is found
to be necessary to the maintenance of the national health, safety,
or interest. The determination of each deferment of training and
service shall be made with regard to the status of the individual
and shall not be made by deferring the training and service of
individuals by occupational groups without regard to the status
of the individual therein. The President is also authorized, under
such regulations as he may prescribe, to defer the training and
service in the land and naval forces of those men in a status with
respect to persons dependent upon them for support which renders
their deferment advisable; and those found to be physically, men-
tally, or morally deficient. No deferment from training and serv-
ice shall continue after the cause therefor ceases to exist.
(e) Nothing contained in this act shall be construed to require
any person to be subject to combatant training or service in the
land or naval forces of the United States who, by reason of religious
training and belief, is conscientiously opposed to participation in
war in any form. All persons claiming such exemption from com-
batant training and service because of such conscientious objections
shall be listed on a Register of Conscientious Objectors at the time
of their classification by a local board. After appropriate inquiry by
the local board, a hearing shall be held by the local board in the
case of each such person with respect to the character and good
faith of his objections, and such person shall be notified of the time



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0062.txt

11752                                  CONGRESSIONAL
and place of such hearing. The local board shall, after such hearing,
if the objections are found to be sustained, recommend (1) that the
objector shall be assigned to noncombatant service as defined by the
President, or (2) if the objector is found to be conscientiously
opposed to participation in such noncombatant service, that he shall
be assigned to work of national importance under civilian direction.
If, after such hearing, the objections, of any such person are found
not to be sustained, the objector shall be immediately notified
thereof, the name of the objector shall then be removed from the
Register of Conscientious Objectors, and such objector shall there-
after be liable to training and service as provided by this act. If,
within 5 days after the date of such findings by the local board, the
objector gives notice to the local board of disagreement with such
findings, the local board shall immediately refer the matter for final
determination to an appropriate appeal board established pursuant
to section 11 (a) (2).
SEC. 6. Notwithstanding the provisions of this act, the President
shall have no authority to induct persons into the land and naval
forces of the United States until Congress shall hereafter appropriate
funds specifically for such purpose.
SEC. 7. All persons called, ordered or inducted into the land and
naval forces of the United States pursuant to this act shall be sub-
ject to the laws and regulations concerning that branch of the land
and naval forces to which they are assigned from the date they are
required by the terms of such call, order, or induction to obey the
same.
SEC. 8. No bounty shall be paid to induce any person to enlist in
or be inducted into the land and naval forces of the United States:
Provided, That the clothing or enlistment allowances authorized by
law shall not be regarded as bounties within the meaning of this
section. No person liable to service in such forces shall be permitted
or allowed to furnish a substitute for such service; nor shall any
substitute as such be received, enlisted, enrolled, or inducted into
the land and naval forces of the United States; and no person liable
to service in such forces shall be permitted to escape such service or
be discharged therefrom prior to the expiration of his term of serv-
ice by the payment of money or any other valuable thing whatsoever
as consideration for his release from service in the land and naval
forces or liability thereto.
SEC. 9. (a) The benefits of the Soldiers and Sailors Civil Relief
Act, approved March 8, 1918, are hereby extended to all persons
inducted into the land and naval forces pursuant to this act, and
except as hereinafter provided, the provisions of such act of March
18, 1918, shall be effective for such purposes.
(b) For the purposes of this section-
(1) the following provisions of such act of March 8, 1918,
shall be inoperative: Section 100; and paragraphs (1), (2), and (5)
of section 101; article 4; article 5; paragraph (2) of section 601;
and section 603;
(2) the term "persons in military service," when used in such
act, shall be deemed to include persons inducted into the land
or naval forces pursuant to this act;
(3) the term   "period of military service," when used in such
act, when applicable with respect to any person inducted into
the land or naval forces pursuant to this act, shall be deemed to
mean the period beginning with the date on which such person
is so inducted and ending with date of his discharge;
(4) The- induction    of any person    into the land     or naval
services of the United States shall not be deemed to be complete
until his physical and mental fitness for military or naval service
shall have been satisfactorily determined and the required oath
shall be administered only after such determination. At the
time of discharge, each person inducted into service under the
provisions of this act shall be given a certificate showing any
illness, injury, or disease suffered by him while In such service.
(5) Article III of the act of March 8, 1918, chapter 20, United
States Statutes at Large, entitled "Rent, Installment Contracts,
Mortgages," is amended by the addition of a new section to be
known as section 303, as follows:
"SEc. 303. Nothing contained in section 301 shall prevent the
termination or cancelation of contracts by mutual agreement of
the parties thereto, or their assignees, executed in writing, nor
the repossession of property pursuant to such agreement."
(c) Any member of any reserve component of the land or naval
forces who is on active duty, and any person inducted into the
land or naval forces under this act who, in the judgment of those
in aulhority over him, satisfactorily completes the 'service re-
quired under this act shall be entitled to a certificate to that
effect upon the completion of such service, which shall include a
record of any special proficiency or merit attained.
(d) In the case of any such person who has left or leaves a
position, other than a temporary position, in the employ of any
employer and who (1) receives such certificate, (2) is still quali-
fied to perform the duties of such position, and (3) makes ap-
plication for reemployment within 40 days after he is relieved
from such service-
(A) if such position was in the employ of the United States
Government, its Territories or possessions, or the District of
Columbia, such person shall be restored to such position or to a
position of like seniority, status, and pay;
(B) if such position was in the employ of a private employer,
such employer shall restore such person to such position or to a
position of like seniority, status, and pay unless the employer's
circumstances have so changed as to make it impossible or un-
, reasonable to do so;

RECORD-HOUSE                                     SEPTEMBER 7
(C) if such position was in the employ of any State of political
subdivision thereof it Is hereby declared to be the sense of the
Congress that such person should be restored to such position or
to a position of like seniority, status, and pay.
(e) Any person who is restored to a position in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (A) or (B) of subsection (b) shall be
considered during the period of service in such forces as on fur-
lough or leave of absence; and shall be so restored without loss of
seniority; and shall be entitled to participate in insurance or other
benefits offered by the employer pursuant to established rules and
practices relating to employees on furlough or leave of absence in
effect with the employer at the time of being inducted into such
forces; and shall not be discharged from such position without
cause within 1 year after such restoration.
(f) In case any private employer fails or refuses to comply with
the provisions of subsection (d) or subsection (e), the district
court of the United States for the district in which such private
employer maintains a place of -business shall have power, upon
the filing of a motion, petition, or other appropriate pleading by
the person entitled to the benefits of such provisions, to specifically
require such employer to comply with such provisions. The court
shall order a speedy hearing in any such case and shall advance
it on the calendar. Upon application to the United States district
attorney for the district in which such private employer main-
tains a place of business, by any person claiming to be entitled to
the benefits of such provisions, such United States district attorney,
if reasonably satisfied that the person so applying is entitled to
such benefits, shall appear and act as attorney for such person
in the amicable adjustment of the claim or in the filing of any
motion, petition, or other appropriate pleading and the prosecution -
.thereof to specifically require such employer to comply with such
provisions and as an incident thereto to compensate such person
for any loss of wages or benefits suffered by reason of such unlaw-
ful action: Provided, That no fees or court costs shall be taxed
against the person so applying for such benefits.
(g) The Director of Selective Service herein provided for shall
establish a Personnel Division with adequate facilities to render
aid in the replacement in their former positions of persons who have
satisfactorily completed their service under this act, and to aid
such persons in finding employment elsewhere if such replacement
in their former positions is impossible or unreasonable.
(h) Any person inducted into the land or naval forces for
training and service under this act shall, during the period of such
training and service, be permitted to vote in any general, special,
or primary election occurring in the State of which he is a resident,
if under the laws of such State he is entitled to vote in such elec-
tion even though he is outside of such State at the time of such
election.
(i) It is the expressed policy of this Congress that whenever a
vacancy is caused in the employment rolls of any business or indus-
try by reason of induction into the service of the United States of
an employee pursuant to the provisions of this act that such
vacancy shall not be filled by any person who is not a citizen of
the United States or who is a member of the Communist Party
or the German-American Bund.
SEC. 10. Any person charged as herein provided with the duty
of carrying into effect any of the provisions of this act, or the
regulations made or directions given thereunder, who shall know-
ingly fall or neglect to perform such duty, and any person charged
with such duty, or having and exercising any authority under said
act, regulations, or directions who shall knowingly make, or be a
party to the making, of any false, improper, or incorrect registra-
tion, classification, physical examination, deferment, induction,
enrollment, or muster, and any person who shall knowingly make,
or be a party to the making of, any false statement or certificate
as to the fitness or unfitness or liability or nonliability of himself
or any other person for service under the provisions of this act,
or regulations or directions made pursuant thereto, or who other-
wise evades registration or service in the land or naval forces or
any of the requirements of this act, or who knowingly counsels,
aids, or abets another to evade registration or service in the land
or naval forces or any of the requirements of this act, or of said
regulations or directions, or who in any manner shall knowingly
fail or neglect to perform any duty required of him under or In
the execution of this act or regulations made in pursuance of this
act, or any person or persons who, shall hinder or interfere
in  any way by force or violence with the administration          of
this act or the regulations made pursuant thereto, or con-
spire to do so, shall, upon      conviction  in  the district court
of the United States having jurisdiction thereof, be punished by
imprisonment for not more than 5 years or a fine of not more than
$10,000, or by both such fine and imprisonment, or if subject to
military or naval law may be tried by court martial, and, on con-
viction, shall suffer such punishment as a court martial may direct.
In cases of persons subject to this act who fail to report for duty
in the land or naval forces as ordered, military and naval courts
martial shall have concurrent Jurisdiction of offenses arising out of
such failure. Precedence shall be given by courts to the trial of
cases arising under this act.
SEC. 11. (a) The President is authorized-
(1) to prescribe the necessary regulations to carry this act into
effect;
(2) to create and establish a selective service system, and shall
provide for the classification of registrants on the basis of availa-
bility for training and service and shall establish civilian local



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0063.txt

1940                                  CONGRESSIONAL
boards and such other civilian agencies, including appeal boards
and agencies of appeal as may be necessary to carry out the pro-
visions of this act. There shall be created one or more local boards
in each county or political subdivisions corresponding thereto of each
State, Territory, the District of Columbia, and the possessions of the
United States. Each local board shall consist of three or more mem-
bers to be appointed by the President, from recommendations made
by the respective Governors or comparable executive officials, none
of which local board members shall be members of the armed forces,
and each member must be a civilian and a citizen of the United
States residing in the subdivision or area in which the respective
local board will have Jurisdiction under the rules and regulations
prescribed by the President. Such local boards shall have power
within their respective Jurisdictions to hear and determine, subject
to the right of appeal to the appeal boards herein authorized all ques-
tions of exemption or deferment from training and service under
this act and all questions of or claims for inclusion for training or
exemption or deferment from training and service of all individuals
within the Jurisdiction of such local boards under the rules and
regulations prescribed by the President. The decisions of such local
boards shall be final except where an appeal is authorized in accord-
ance with such rules and regulations as the President may prescribe.
The appeal boards and agencies of appeal shall be created within the
selective service system and persons comprising such appeal boards
and such agencies shall be civilians and citizens of the United States.
No perscn who is an officer, member, agent, or employee of the selec-
tive service system or of the local or appeal boards or other agencies
provided for in this act or any regulations pursuant thereto, shall be
exempt from registration, or deferred if qualified and eligible, from
training and service as provided for in this act;
(3) to appoint, upon the recommendation of the Secretary of War,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and fix the com-
pensation of a director of selective service, who shall be directly re-
sponsible to him and to appoint and fix the compensation of such
other officers, agents, and employees as he may deem necessary to
carry out the provisions of this act;
(4) to utilize the services of any or all departments and any and
all officers or agents of the United States and to accept the services
of all officers and agents of the several States, Territories, and the
District of Columbia and subdivisions thereof in the execution of
this act; and
(5) to purchase such printing, binding, and blank-book work from
public, commercial, or private printing establishments or binderies
upon orders placed by the Public Printer or upon waivers issued in
accordance with section 12 of the Printing Act approved January 12,
1895, as amended by the act of July 8, 1935 (49 Stat. 475), and to
obtain by purchase, loan, or gift such equipment and supplies for the
selective service system as may be necessary in his discretion to carry
out the provisions of this act, with or without advertisements or
formal contract.
The Chief of Finance, United States Army is hereby designated,
empowered, and directed to act as the fiscal, disbursing, and
accounting agent of the Director of Selective Service in carrying
out the provisions of this act.
(b) All officers and agents and persons designated or appointed
by the President or under regulations prescribed by him shall
have full authority for all acts performed by them in the execution
of this act by the direction of the President. In the administration
of this act voluntary services may be accepted. Correspondence
necessary In the execution of this act may be carried in official
penalty envelopes.
SEC. 12. The President is empowered, through the head of the War
Department or the Navy Department of the Government, in addi-
tion to the present authorized methods of purchase or procure-
ment, to place an order with any individual, firm, association, com-
pany, corporation, or organized manufacturing industry for such
product or material as may be required, and which is of the nature
and kind usually produced or capable of being produced by such
individual, firm, company, association, corporation, or organized
manufacturing Industry.
Compliance with all such orders for products or material shall
be obligatory on any individual, firm, association, company, cor-
poration, or organized manufacturing industry or the responsible
head or heads thereof and shall take precedence over all other
orders and contracts theretofore placed with such individual, firm,
company, association, corporation, or organized manufacturing in-
dustry, and any individual, firm, association, company, corporation,
or organized manufacturing industry or the responsible head or
heads thereof owning or operating any plant equipped for the
manufacture of arms or ammunition or parts of ammunition, or
any necessary supplies or equipment for the Army or Navy, and any
individual, firm, association, company, corporation, or organized
manufacturing industry or the responsible head or heads thereof
owning or operating any manufacturing plant, which, in the opin-
ion of the Secretary of War or the Secretary of the Navy shall be
capable of being readily transformed into a plant for the manu-
facture of arms or ammunition, or parts thereof, or other necessary
supplies or equipment, who shall refuse to give to the United States
such preference in the matter of the execution of orders, or who
shall refuse to manufacture the kind, quantity, or quality of arms
or ammunition, or the parts thereof, or any necessary supplies or
equipment, as ordered by the Secretary of War or the Secretary
of the Navy, or who shall refuse to furnish such arms, ammunition,
or parts of ammunition, or other supplies or equipment at a, rea-
sonable price as determined by the Secretary of War or the Secre-

RECORD-HOUSE                                                11753
tary of the Navy, as the case may be, then, and in either such case,
the President, through the head of the War or Navy Departments
of the Government, in addition to the present authorized methods
of purchase or procurement, is hereby authorized to take immediate
possession of any such plant or plants, and through the appropriate
branch, bureau, or department of the Army or Navy to manufacture
therein such product or material as may be required, and any indi-
vidual, firm, company, association, or corporation, or organized
manufacturing industry, or the responsible head or heads thereof,
failing to comply with the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a felony, and upon conviction shall be punished
by imprisonment for not more than 3 years and a fine not exceeding
$50,000.
The compensation to be paid to any individual, firm, company,
association, corporation, or organized manufacturing industry for
its products or material, or as rental for use of any manufacturing
plant while used by the United States, shall be fair and just: Pro-
vided, That nothing herein shall be deemed to render inapplicable
existing State or Federal laws concerning the health, saftey, security,
and employment standards of the employees in such plant.
The first and second provisos in section 8 (b) of the act entitled
"An act to expedite national defense, and for other purposes,"
approved June 28, 1940 (Public Act Numbered 671, Seventy-sixth
Congress), are hereby repealed.
SEC. 13. (a) Every person shall be deemed to have notice of the
requirements of this act upon publication by the President of a
proclamation or other public notice requiring registration.
(b) If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
act is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining sections or portions of this
act.
SEC. 14. When used in this act, the following phrases shall have
the following meanings:
(a) The phrase "between the ages of twenty-one and forty-five"
shall include men who have reached the twenty-first anniversary of
the day of their birth and who have not reached the forty-fifth
anniversary of the day of their birth; and other phrases designating
different age groups shall be construed in the same manner.
(b) The phrase "United States and its possessions" shall be
deemed to include the several States, the District of Columbia, the
Territories, and the possessions of the United States, except the
Phillipine Islands.
(c) "Dependent" of a person registered under the provisions of
this act includes only an individual (1) who is dependent in fact
on such person for support in a reasonable manner, and (2) whose
support in such a manner depends on income earned by such person
in a business, occupation, or employment.
SEC. 15. Except as herein provided, all laws and parts of laws in
conflict with the provisions of this act are hereby suspended for
the period in which this act shall be in force.
SEC. 16. This act may be cited as the "Selective Training and
Service Act of 1940."
Ssc. 17. This act shall take effect immediately. All the provi-
sions of this act shall become Inoperative on and after May 15,
1945, except as to the provisions of section 3 (c), and except as to
violations of this act, unless continued in effect by the Congress.
SEC. 18. There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as
may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this act.
Mr. SPEAKER. The question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time,
and was read the third time.
Mr. SHORT. Mr. Speaker-
The SPEAKER. For what purpose does the gentleman
from Missouri rise?
Mr. SHORT. Mr. Speaker, I offer a motion to recommit
which is at the Clerk's desk.
The SPEAKER. Is the gentleman a member of the
committee?
Mr. SHORT. I am, sir.
The SPEAKER. Is the gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. SHORT. Most emphatically.
The SPEAKER. The gentleman qualifies, and the Clerk
will report the motion to recommit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. SHORT moves to recommit the bill to the Committee on
Military Affairs with instructions to that committee to report
the bill back forthwith with the following amendments: On
page 32, line 10, after the word "board", insert the following:
"shall be bipartisan and"; and on page 33, line 3, after the word
"President", strike out the remainder of line 2, all of lines 3 to 8,
inclusive, and the words "United States" on line 9, and Insert the
following: "There shall be created in each State one or more
appeal boards to which appeals may be taken from decisions of
local boards in accordance with such rules and regulations as
the President may prescribe. Such appeal boards shall be bi-
partisan and shall be appointed in the same manner and possess
the same qualifications provided for members of local boards;"



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0064.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE

SEPTEMBER 7

and on page 36, line 5, strike out "May 15, 1945," and insert
"October 1, 1942, except as to men already inducted into pervice
and."
Mr. MAY. Mr. Speaker, on that motion I move the
previous question.
The previous question was ordered.
Mr. ANDERSON of Missouri. Mr. Speaker-
The SPEAKER. For what purpose does the gentleman
from Missouri rise?
Mr. ANDERSON of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, as a member
of the committee on the majority side, I have a motion to
recommit, also.
The SPEAKER. Under the rules, there is only permitted
one motion to recommit, and the minority side under the
universal practice has the right to be recognized on such
motion.
Mr. SHORT. Mr. Speaker, I demand the yeas and nays
on the motion to recommit.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The question was taken; and there were-yeas 171, nays 241,
not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 212]
YEAS-171

Alexander         Fenten
Allen, Ill.       Fish
Andersen, H. Carl Fries
Anderson, Calif. Gartner
Anderson, Mo.     Gehrmann
Andresen, A. H.   Geyer, Calif.
Angell            Glifford
Arends            Gilchrist
Bates, Mass.      Gillie
Bender            Goodwin
Blackney          Graham
Bolles            Grant, Ind.
Bolton            Gross
Bradley, Mich.    Guyer, Kans.
Brewster          Gwynne
Brown, Ohio       Hall, Edwin A.
Buckler, Minn.    Halleck
Burdick           Harness
Carlson           Harter, N. Y.
Carter            Hartley
Case, S. Dak.     Hawks
Chiperfleld       Hess
Church            Hill
Clason            Hinshaw
Clevenger         Hoffman
Coffee, Nebr.     Holmes
Coffee, Wash.     Hope
Cole, N.Y.        Horton
Corbett           Hull
Crawford          Hunter
Crosser           Jarrett
Crowther          Jeffries
Culkin            Jenkins, Ohio
Curtis            Jennings
Ditter            Jensen
Dondero           Johns
Douglas           Johnson, Ill.
Dworshak          Johnson, Ind.
Eaton             Jones, Ohio
Elston            Jonkman
Engel             Kean
Englebright       Keefe
Evans             Kinzer

Burgin
Byrne, N. Y.
Byrns, Tenn.
Byron
Camp
Cannon, Fla.
Cannon, Mo.
Cartwright
Casey, Mass.
Celler
Clark
Claypool
Cluett
Cochran
Cole, Md.
Colmer
Connery
Cooley
Cooper
Costello
Courtney
Cox
Cravens
Creal
Crowe
Cullen
Cummings

Knutson
Kunkel
Lambertson
Landis
Leavy
LeCompte
Lemke
Lesinskl
Lewis, Ohio
Luce
McAndrews
McArdle
McDowell
McGregor
McLean
MeLeod
Maas
Magnuson
Marcantonlo
Marshall
Martin, Iowa
Martin, Mass.
Mason
Michener
Miller
Mott
Mundt
Murdock, Ariz.
Murray
Oliver
Osmers
Pittenger
Powers
Rabaut
Reece, Tenn.
Reed, Ill.
Reed, N. Y.
Rees, Kans.
Rich
Robsion, Ky.
Rockefeller
Rodgers, Pa.
Routzohn

NAYS-241

D'Alesandro
Darden, Va.
Davis
Delaney
DeRouen
Dickstein
Dingell
Disney
Doughton
Doxey
Drewry
Duncan
Dunn
Durham
Eberharter
Edelstein
Edmiston
Elliott
Faddis
Fay
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Flaherty
Flannagan
Flannery
Folger
Ford, Leland M.

