Members of the Congress, the Army Corps of
Engineers has announced new permit require-
ments under the 1899 Refuse Act which is
supposed to help curtail discharges of pol-
lutants into navigable waters. According to a
Corps of Engineers release, permits will be
required for all . industrial discharges into
navigable waters and their tributaries. New
permits will be required where existing OK's
were granted without adequate consideration
of the quality of the 'effluent. Permits also
will be required for current discharges into
navigable waters where none have been
granted. In essence, industry will be given a
license to pollute, but only to the extent
that state water quality standards allow.
While permission will be required for all
future discharges into navigable waters and
their tributaries, the Corps of Engineers says
it will concentrate Initially on major sources
of Industrial pollution not covered by exist-
ing permits.
POPULARITY OF SPACE PROGRAM
HON. JAMES G. FULTON
or PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 10, 1970
Mr. FULTON of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, in these days of criticism and
doubt on everything from the Bible, the
U.S. Constitution, the President, the Con-
gress, and even the rules the average
U.S. citizen lives by, it is heartening to
find the popularity of the science, re-
search, and development space program.
As the ranking minority member of the
House Science and Astronautics Com-
mittee, during the past several weeks I
have checked through the large Pitts-
burgh metropolitan and industrial area
and find our citizens uniformly favor
keeping the United States foremost in
science, research, development, space and
technology. In fact, most of our citizens
feel that the progress in science, research,
development, and technology have been
major contributory elements to the high
standard of living which we Americans
now enjoy.
In order to keep ahead for the future,
the average western Pennsylvania citi-
zen feels that we must continue to em-
phasize education, and keep the Federal
Government, as well as the Pennsylvania
government cooperating with our cor-
porations in business and the develop-



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0761.txt

September 10, 1970
ment of new practices, new products, and
new horizons.
Our Allegheny County-Pittsburgh-
Fair, which runs 5 days through Labor
Day each year, exhibits everything from
farm products to advanced technology
and engineering and draws crowds by the
hundreds of thousands. The total attend-
ance this year from western Pennsyl-
vania, northern West Virginia, and east-
ern Ohio exceeded 750,000 people who
viewed exhibits and took part in projects.
This is America at its best.
Our Allegheny County commissioners,
Commissioner    Staisey, Commissioner
Foerster, and   Commissioner William
Hunt are to be complimented on this
fine success of the fair this year for
the benefit of our citizens.
At my request, in cooperation with the
Allegheny County commissioners, the
National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration lent a moon rock specimen
brought back by the Apollo 12 crew. This
moon rock exhibit of NASA was placed in
a small room in the basement of the
Park Administration Building. As a mem-
ber of the House Science and Astronau-
tics Committee, my office and I arranged
for the display and we had five people
and myself, as well as an Allegheny
County Police Officer as guard assist in
handling the surprising number of people
who crowded in every day to view the
Apollo 12 moon rock exhibit.
We gave to those people specially in-
terested in further information on the
moon rock a statement on this particular
moon rock, which I am enclosing for the
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
Therefore, I recommend to the Mem-
bers of the U.S. House of Representatives
and the Members of the U.S. Senate that
strong support be given to science, re-
search, development, technology, and ed-
ucation to insure the future success of
the United States, to maintain U.S. in-
dustry as first in research and technol-
ogy, and to fund adequately our educa-
tional institutions, which is the greatest
and goodly heritage this generation can
give to our young people and the coming
generations of American citizens.
The statement on the moon rock
follows:
ALL ABOUT THE MOON ROCK!
DEAR FRIENDs: This excellent moon rock
was brought back to Earth by the Apollo 12
Astronauts from their trip to the Moon in
November 1969, a journey which carried
them 953,000 miles and lasted over ten days.
Soon after the completion of the Apollo 12
flight, one scientist described the mission as
"maybe a million times more important to
science than Apollo 11," the first flight to put
men on the Moon. The Apollo 12 mission
yielded much more in the way of scientific
samples for study.
This particular sample on display here was
collected by Astronauts Conrad and Bean
during their first moon walk outside their
landing craft. Scientists have speculated that
it is a chunk of bed rock that was ejected
from a crater close to where it was found.
It weighs 151 grams-about one-third of a
pound. Actually, it is only part of a larger
rock of over four pounds which was dis-
covered embedded beneath the lunar surface.
Because this rock has been sawed through,
it is one of the best lunar samples available
for public viewing. From its cross-section it
is possible to distinguish its "shatter crust"

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS

31307

on the surface, which is slightly lighter in  craft was struck by enemy ground fire, dam-
color than the dark grey interior. This crust  aging  an  aileron  and  the tail section,
was formed by the crushing of crystals by     Captain BOWEN made two bombing runs
micro-meteorite bombardment.                  against the hostile force, which enabled the
According to its scientific designation, this  extraction aircraft to land and successfully
rock is an "olivine dolerite." It could be from  lift out the crew and passengers of the CH-
3.5 to 4.5 billion years old, older than the  46. His exceptional aeronautical ability and
oldest known rocks on Earth.                  determined efforts were an Inspiration to all
Over 150 scientific groups in the United    who served with him    and contributed sig-
States and abroad are cooperating in the de-  niflcantly to the safe extraction of thirteen
tailed  analysis of samples such    as this. Marines. Captain BOWEN's courage, superb
Through their research we will gain a greater  airmanship and steadfast devotion to duty in
knowledge of not only the Moon, but the       the face of great personal danger were in
Earth, the Sun, and indeed our entire uni-    keeping with the highest traditions of the
verse as well.                                Marine Corps and of the United States Naval
Best wishes,                            Service."
JIM FULTON.        For the President,

CAP'. C. GERY BOWEN
HON. OLIN E. TEAGUE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 10, 1970
Mr. TEAGUE of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
on Thursday, August 6, the body of Ma-
rine Corps Capt. C. Gery Bowen was laid
to rest with full military honors in Dal-
las. Captain Bowen was a career officer
and one of Texas' many heroes of the
Vietnam war. He flew some 311 combat
missions and came through all of them
unscathed, only to fall ill while serving
as a flight instructor at the Naval Air
Station in Beeville, Tex. He was a much
decorated individual and under leave to
extend my remarks, I include the text
of the two most important decorations
which were accorded to Captain Bowen:
U.S. MARINE CORPS,
San Francisco, Calif.
The President of the United States takes
pleasure in presenting the Distinguished Fly-
ing Cross to Captain Charles Gery Bowen,
United States Marine Corps, for service as
set forth in the following citation:
"For heroism and extraordinary achieve-
ment in aerial flight while serving as a Pilot
with Marine Attack Squadron 211, Marine
Aircraft Group Twelve, First Marine Aircraft
Wing in connnection with operations against
the enemy in the Republic of Vietnam. On
the morning of 1 February 1968, Captain
BOWEN launched as Wingman in a flight of
two A-4 Skyhawk aircraft assigned a landing
zone preparation mission in support of a
Marine reconnaissance team inserting nine
miles southwest of DaNang. Enroute to the
designated area, he contacted the Tactical
Air Controller (Airborne) and was instructed
to make bombing runs against suspected
enemy position on the high ground overlook-
ing the helicopter landing zone. After mak-
ing several attack runs, Captain BOWEN
was informed that the CH-46 helicopter
transporting the reconnaissance team had
been hit by enemy fire and had crashed over
500 meters away from the intended landing
zone. While orbiting the area, he received a
briefing from the Tactical Air Controller
(Airborne), who reported that 200 to 300
North Vietnamese soldiers were observed in
the area and were firing on the downed air-
craft. With complete disregard for his own
safety, Captain BOWEN unhesitatingly com-
menced a low level simulated strafing run to-
ward a tree line adjacent to the Marines' po-
sition in an effort to draw the attention and
the fire of the enemy away from the burn-
ing CH-46. In coordination with the ap-
proach of the extraction helicopter, he com-
menced his second run. Although his air-

V. H. KRULAK,
Lieutenant General, U.S. Marine Corps,
Commanding General, Fleet Marine
Force, Pacific.
U.S. MARINE CORPS,
San Francisco, Calil.
The President of the United States takes
pleasure In presenting a gold star in lieu of
the second Distinguished Flying Cross to
Captain Charles Gery Bowen, United States
Marine Corps, for service as set forth in the
following citation:
"For heroism and extraordinary achieve-
ment in aerial flight while serving with Ma-
rine Attack Squadron 211, Marine Aircraft
Group Twelve, First Marine Aircraft Wing in
connection with operations against the en-
emy in the Republic of Vietnam. On 21 Feb-
ruary 1968, Captain Bowen launched as Flight
Leader of a section of two A-4 Skyhawk air-
craft assigned a close air support mission for
Marine units heavily engaged with a numeri-
cally superior North Vietnamese Army force
in the city of Hue. Despite rapidly deteriorat-
ing weather conditions, extremely limited vis-
Ibility and intense enemy ground fire, he
skillfully maneuvered his aircraft over the
target area and quickly located the enemy
positions. With complete disregard for his
own safety, Captain Bowen commenced his
attack and executed four bombing runs
through the heavy enemy fire, delivering all
ordnance with pinpoint accuracy to within
100 meters of friendly positions. As a result
of his exceptional ordnance delivery, the
flight was credited with the destruction or
damage of numerous structures, two sec-
ondary fires and one secondary explosion and
inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy. Cap-
tain Bowen's courage, outstanding aeronauti-
cal skill and unwavering devotion to duty at
great personal risk contributed significantly
to the success of Operation Hue City and
were in keeping with the highest traditions
of the Marine Corps and of the United States
.Naval Service."
For the President,
V. H. KRULAK,
Lieutenant General, U.S. Marine Corps,
Commanding General, Fleet Marine
Force, Pacific.
A GOLD RECORD AWARD
HON. JEROME R. WALDIE
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 10, 1970
Mr. WALDIE. Mr. Speaker, the Antioch
Environmental Council recently initiated
a worthwhile program of "honoring" the
top water polluters of the month by
presenting them with a Gold Record
Award.
Occasionally, this dubious distinction
Is presented a national agency whose ac-
tivities are deserving of such recognition.



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0762.txt

31308

Such a "distinction" was merited in
the council's view-and in my own-by
the U.S. Army for its remarkable deci-
sion to dispose of its undisposable ac-
cumulation of deadly nerve gas by dump-
ing it into the Atlantic Ocean. Surely,
such innovative action is worthy of at-
tention-if not acclaim-and the Anti-
och Environmental Council has properly
given the U.S. Army that attention.
I include their letter on this matter
for your attention:
ANTIOCH ENVIRONMENTAL' COUNCIL,
Antioch, Calif., August 14, 1970.
J. S. GRYsIEL,
Colonel, G. S., Deputy Director of Installa-
tion, Department of the Army, Pentagon,
Washington, D.C.
Colonel GsYExL: Congratulations! The
Antioch Environmental Council has selected
the Department of the Army as the recipient
of our special Gold Record Award for contri-
butions in the field of water pollution. Each
month the AEC awards gold records to the
top ten air and water polluters in our coun-
.try, which Is Contra Costa. However, gold
records also are awarded to a state and a
federal agency that has made a major con-
tribution to the pollution problems of our
country.
We feel that the Department of the Army
has earned the Gold Record Pollution Award
for Its plan to dump potentially-deadly nerve
gas rockets in the Atlantic Ocean. The Army
has met our qualifications for this award in
that it creates excessive amounts of waste
material that must eventually be disposed
of in the environment.
Your department is the first to receive the
National Award, and It is now a member of
a not-so-exclusive group called "Polluter of
the Month Club." Keep up the work and
your efforts will not go unrecognized.
- Regards,
Mrs. THAYER JOHNSON, Chairman,
Antioch Environmental Council.
NEW PROTECTIONISM
HON. SAM GIBBONS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 10, 1970
Mr. GIBBONS. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Ho-
bart Rowen, business editor of the Wash-
ington Post, has ably analyzed some of
the fallacies in the now pending foreign
trade bill in his column -of Sunday, Sep-
tember 6.
His cogent appraisal of this legislation
as it relates to jobs of American work-
ingmen, and its open invitation to quotas
for many American Industries, not just
two, and a consequent international
trade war should be read by every Mem-
ber of this House.
I, therefore, submit for inclusion in
the RECORD the article, as follows:
LABOR LEADERS RESENT "PROTECTIONISM"
LABEL
Labor leaders appear to resent the charge
that their new policy In support of import
quotas amounts to "protectionism."
When they argue that the expansion of
trade must be "regulated" to protect jobs,
"that's not 'protectionism,' that's realism,"
AFL-CIO Research Director Nat Goldfinger
said in a letter to The Washington Post.
The 'essence of Goldflnger's argument Is

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
that the U.S. export surplus has vanished
(after  discounting    government-financed
shipments), eliminating job opportunities
here. Moreover, the    fast-growing   multi-
national corporation can "Juggle" jobs and
production from one country to another
(typically to low-cost economies outside of
the United States). To cap it all, expanding
imports don't necessarily result in price bene-
fits to the consumer.
"Confronted by reality," Goldflnger says,
"the AFL-CIO insists that the needed ex-
pansion of trade must be regulated. The
AFL-CIO has proposed restrictions on the
foreign investment outflows of U.S. com-
panies, the end of U.S. government sub-
sidies to companies setting up foreign sub-
sidiaries, government regulation of U.S.-
based multi-national corporations and the
development of international fair labor
standards in world trade.
"In addition, the AFL-CIO has recom-
mended, as a stopgap, an orderly marketing
approach to imports-with a trigger mecha-
nism for the establishment of quotas to
stem the tide of imports of a product, when
such expanding imports threaten to disrupt
the U.S. market."
That's the policy Mr. Goldfinger says is
not protectionist. Interestingly enough, a
Latin-American trade delegation which vis-
ited Washington Aug. 5 to 7, hoping to pave
the way for exemptions from the threatened
restrictions of the Mills bill, reported to the
Council of Americas organization:
"The only strongly protectionist note which
the delegation heard came from representa-
tives of the AFL-CIO. The AFL-CIO repre-
sentatives expressed firm opposition to what
they called 'the export of jobs' from the
U.S."
The AFL-CIO's main concern is jobs; but
it is simply not true to suggest that Amer-
ican labor is threatened by a flood of im-
ports. Both exports and imports have grown
over the years, which means that some do-
mestic industries (and their workers) have
been faced with greater competition. By the
same token,.the export industries (and their
workers) have gained from increasing sales.
ECONOMIC IMPACT
What the labor leaders seem to be saying
is that everything should be frozen, with
everybody keeping the same job in the same
industry he started out in. As Council of
Economic Advisers chairman Hendrik Hou-
thakker said in a courageous speech last
month, "This line of argument recalls the
guild system of the Middle Ages and is hardly
appropriate in a modern dynamic society."
As Houthakker suggested, if the textile and
shoe industries that the AFL-CIO is so wor-
ried about can't meet the competition, it
shows only that American workers can be
more productively employed elsewhere. But
in countries like Korea, the textile industry
provides the most productive employment
available.
"It is therefore to the advantage of both
countries," Houthakker argued, "if more
American workers get out of textiles and
more Korean workers get Into them. This
shift also benefits American consumers, who
can buy textiles more cheaply."
The multi-national corporation argument
also doesn't really wash. There is nothing
much new there. Big corporations have al-
ways tried to locate where their costs of pro-
duction are the cheapest; this was true also
while the AFL-CIO, years ago, backed a lib-
eral free trade policy.
Paul Jennings, president of the Interna-
tional Union of Electrical, Radio and Ma-
chine Workers, makes the point that an
electronics worker in Taiwan makes only
1/20th of the U.S. worker's wage. But as
Houthakker notes, even though wages. in the
U.S. aircraft industry are much higher than
similar wages elsewhere, the U.S. industry
dominates world markets. Why? Because of

September 10, .1970
the high level of productivity for aircraft
workers.
What is dangerous today is that the House
Ways and Means Committee quota bill is
likely to pass, which could result in a reduc-
tion of both imports and exports because of
the undoubted retaliation in kind that will
result.
The U.S. economy is powerful enough to
share in growing world trade, dealing with
the initial problems of industry and labor
impacted by any really serious import com-
petition.
But the approach of the House bill, not-
ably the "general relief" provision sponsored
by Rep. John W. Byrnes (R-Wis.) opens the
quota door to a host of industries.
The Byrnes' formula makes eligible those
industries which demonstrate that imports
exceed 15 per cent of the U.S. market, have
increased 3 per cent inthe previous year and
5 per cent in the prior two years.
A Tariff Commission study shows that
literally scores of industries would be eligible
for quotas under the Byrnes formula, includ-
ing many electronic products; passenger cars;
bicycles; many metal ores; pottery; sport-
ing goods; leather goods; many fish and sea-
food products; many agricultural products:
clocks; antibiotics; umbrellas; radioactive
isotopes and wigs.
Moreover, the "national interest" clause
which allows the President to exempt desig-
nated countries from quotas is a reversion
from the principle of multilateral trade to a
narrower and discriminatory bilateral basis.
(The Latin American delegation, by the way,
got promises of special treatment.)
But other countries are not planning to
remain idle. If they merely ape the Byrnes
"basket" technique, U.S. exports will run
smack into increasing protectionism abroad.
Despite assurance to the contrary by Com-
merce Secretary Maurice Stans, the threat
of reprisals is strong. There are many clues.
German Economic Minister Karl Schiller,
for example, says that if U.S. quotas are
slapped on, "there would be a great peril
that a wave of protectionism would circle the
globe in a chain reaction." German indus-
trialist Fritz Berg more bluntly says a
"trade war" is imminent.
The Italian Minister of Foreign Trade,
Mario Zagari, echoing the same sentiment,
adds that the return to protectionism "will
mean the beginning of the end of American
leadership in the world . . ."
Thus, It doesn't really matter what the
AFL-CIO calls its policy; the essential point
is that the industries and unions that are
backing quota legislation are taking a seri-
ous backward step that threatens the total
economic well-being of this country.
CONCERN OVER TERRORIST HI-
JACKINGS-A NEW WEAPON OF
INTERNATIONAL WARFARE
HON. ROBERT H. MICHEL
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 10, 1970
Mr. MICHEL. Mr. Speaker, all of -us
in Congress share concern over the wave
of   terrorist  hijackings    which    has
emerged as a new weapon of interna-
tional warfare. Our hearts go out-to the
victims and their anxious relatives. I
feel that the Government of this Nation
has a clear and definite responsibility to
act to meet this new threat to safety and
peace of mind. Various solutions have
been suggested. Some innovations have
been tried-all have been found want-



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0763.txt

September 10, 1970
ing. Inspection of passengers, various
screening devices and even "frisking" of
suspected hijackers has failed to protect
the traveling public. The apparent only
recourse is to place military armed
guards on international and coastal
flights originating in the United States.
This is a serious step and an encroach-
ment on traditional separation of mili-
tary and civil functions. However, these
are unusual and trying times. The prob-
lem we are dealing with is extremely
serious-as right now 300 lives hang in
the balance, depending on the decisions
of fanatical Palestinian guerrillas. I
would hope that other nations would fol-
low suit, since international cooperation
on return of hijackers seems beyond the
realm of cooperative agreement at the
present time. I urge the President to take
this step with all due care to preservation
of public rights, but with full-scale pro-
tection for the flying public in mind.
Eventually we will undoubtedly find
other ways, but today's answer must be
applied to today's emergency.
EDUCATION IS THE KEY
HON. EDWARD J. DERWINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday. September 10, 1970
Mr. DERWINSKI. Mr. Speaker, as we
return after the House recess, schools
across the country are beginning the fall
term. A very pertinent editorial empha-
sizing the value of a well-rounded edu-
cation was carried in the Thursday, Aug-
ust 20 Worth-Palos, Ill., Reporter. I feel
that it is an exceptionally pertinent com-
mentary on the subject and ask to insert
the editorial at this point:
EDUCATION IS THE KEY
(By Pat Bouchard)
The beginning of the new school year is
fast approaching and one fact becomes in-
creasingly clear. The future of American so-
ciety depends to a large degree on how effec-
tive our educational system is.
Education is in an era of unrest. Schools
and children are faced with social problems
the community has not been able to solve.
School administrators are tied up with issues
of integration, sex education, drug abuse,
aid to private schools, and these issues, along
with the everyday striving to keeping up with
knowledge that is increasing at a fantastic
rate, is going to require patience, diligence.
and cooperation. The patience, diligence and
cooperation will be required of students and
parents as well as school officials.
This cooperation is an absolute must if
our educational system is -to grow and suc-
ceed. Educational growth and success Is an
absolute must if the future of America is
to be assured.
A combination of student knowledge and
compassion can be the insurance policy that
will guarantee the survival of our society,
maybe not as it is, but even better, as it
should be.
The premiums on that insurance policy
must be paid by all of us. The education of
our children cannot be relegated merely to
those hours they spend in school. Book learn-
ing alone is not enough.
If the citizens of tomorrow are to cope with
the world they must develop sound and cre-
ative habits of mind. This can be done within
the classroom. Further, the institutions of

EXTENSIONS- OF REMARKS
learning can fulfill society's need for pro-
fessionals aid technicians. The teachers can
do this job with the cooperation of the stu-
dents in developing their intellectual re-
sources.
However, knowledge alone will not give our
young people all the necessary tools to deal
with increasing social and political ills.
Knowing and understanding other humans is
necessary, and this Is an around-the-clock
project. The student's success in this area de-
pends greatly upon the most influential
teacher-the parent.
Thus we see It will take the combined ef-
forts of educators and parents to forge the
key that will unlock the force capable of
solving all the problems of war, hunger, dam-
aged environment, and the general atmos-
sphere of violence in which we live.
That key, of course, is a well rounded edu-
cation.
ABRIDGED HISTORY OF BIERSTADT
PAINTINGS IN SPEAKER'S LOBBY
HON. BURT L. TALCOTT
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 10, 1970
Mr. TALCOTT. Mr. Speaker, it is a
pity that more visitors to our Capitol do
not have an opportunity to see and ap-
preciate the works of art located here.
Only two of the paintings which hang
in the Speaker's lobby of the House of
Representatives are not portraits. These
are the pair of landscapes by Albert
Bierstadt, prominent artist of Western
America during the 19th century.
The House, in 1867, adopted by unani-
mous consent the resolution of Mr.
Banks:
Resolved: That the Committee on the Li-
brary be authorized to contract with Albert
Bierstadt for two paintings thoroughly Amer-
ican in character, representing some promi-
nent feature of scenery or important event
in the discovery or history of America to fill
2 unoccupied panels in the chamber of the
House of Representatives.
Bierstadt, when contacted by the com-
mittee, asked for $40,000 for each paint-
ing. The discussions ended there, but not
permanently, for, on March 3, 1875, the
chairman-of the Joint Committee on
the Library-was authorized to purchase
of Mr. A. Bierstadt his painting of the
landing of Hendrik Hudson now on ex-
hibition in the hall of the House of Rep-
resentatives, at a price not exceeding
$10,000.
This purchase was made, and, in 1878,
a companion painting, "Entrance Into
Monterey," was purchased from the
artist, also, for $10,000. They were 10 feet
6 inches by 6 feet each, and hung on
either side of the Speaker's desk in the
Chamber. Early in the 20th century-be-
fore 1910-the paintings were removed to
a retiring room connected with the
Speaker's lobby. They were moved again
during the 1920's, and the paintings have
since hung above the Members' stair-
cases at either.end of the Speaker's lobby.
The painter, Albert Bierstadt, was born
in Dusseldorf, Germany, January 7, 1830.
He was brought to America at an early
age, but returned to Dusseldorf in 1853
and entered the academy, afterward
studying in Italy and Germany. He was

31309
elected national academician in 1860,
chevalier of the Legion of Honor of
France in 1867, and received medals and
various orders from Austria, Germany,
Bavaria, and Belgium. He was at one
time a pupil of Emmanuel Leutze. He
died in New York, February 18, 1902.
Charles E. Fairman, Art and Artists of
the Capitol of the United States of
America, USGPO, Washington, 1927, p.
177.
Bierstadt was acclaimed in America
and Europe for his landscapes, particu-
larly those of the Sierras and the Rockies.
He achieved national recognition follow-
ing his first trip West with Gen. Frederick
Lander's 1858 mapping expedition. He
made a second trip in 1863, reaching
California and Oregon for the first time.
Following an extended European trip to
make studies for the painting of Hendrik
Hudson's landing, Bierstadt returned
again to San Francisco in 1872, from
where he visited Yosemite and Hetch
Hetchie Canyon-two of his most famous
subjedts.
Because one of the Bierstadt paintings
portrays an historic and scenic place in
the congressional district which I have
the honor to represent, I have researched
and discovered some pertinent informa-
tion which I believe will interest Mem-
bers and visitors who enjoy the variety
of art which adorns our Capitol.
ENTRANCE INTO MONTEREY
Hanging above the Members' stair-
case at the west end of the Speaker's
Lobby in the House of Representatives
is Albert Bierstadt's painting of Monte-
rey Bay. Finished in 1878 and sold di-
rectly to the Government for $10,000, it
originally hung to the left of the Speak-
er's desk in the House Chamber, next to
the portrait of George Washington. It
was moved in the early 1900's, and again
in the 1920's, -when it was placed over
the staircase. It has been known both
as "Entrance into Monterey"-this title
has been used by the Architect of the
Capitol ever since the painting was
acquired-and as "Viscaino Landing at
Monterey, 1601." The latter title appears
on the titleplate attached to the paint-
ing's frame.
There is een some doubt as to the
intended subject matter of the painting.
In 1897, George Hazelton wrote in his
guide to the Capitol, the National Capi-
tol, Its Architecture, Art and History,
that "(in)any think it represents what
might be styled the natal day of the
Upper California mission"-the Decem-
ber, 1601 landing at Monterey by the ex-
plorer Viscaino--while "(o) thers, how-
ever, ably contend that Bierstadt. in-
tended here to celebrate with his brush
the spot where Spanish tradition says
Junipero Serra, the 'Father of Califor-
Snia,' surrounded by his disciples, first
said mass at Monterey in 1769, under an
oak by the shores of the beautiful bay."
Sebastian Viscaino, exploring the coast
of California for the King of Spain, came
upon Monterey Bay in December 1602.
He reported it as a wonderful harbor of
refuge-thereby    confusing  later  ex-
plorers when they happened upon this
open roadstead-and named it for the
then Viceroy of New Spain, the Conde de



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0764.txt

31310

Monterrey. Viscaino, with his fleet of
four small ships, was the first to accu-
rately map the California coast; the
names he gave landmarks endure to the
present day.
Father Serra landed at Monterey on
June 1, 1770, after sailing up from San
Diego on the San Antonio. Meeting Por-
tola-who had come by land-they cele-
brated mass under a live oak close to the
beach. At this time, formal possession,
first claimed by Cabrillo in 1542, was re-
confirmed in the name of the King of
Spain.
The painting has been cleaned and re-
stored once, in 1953 by Francis Sullivan
of the National Gallery.
I BELIEVE IN AMERICA
HON. HAROLD T. JOHNSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 10, 1970
Mr. JOHNSON of California. Mr.
Speaker, an example of what I consider
to be the responsibility and dedication
of the majority of our young people was
recently called to my attention. Miss
Wendy Morony of Chico, Calif., recently
wrote an essay entitled "I Believe in
America," winning first place in the
American Legion's essay contest held
annually. Because this expression of
patriotism and concern so thoroughly
examines both the ills plaguing our coun-
try as well as the constructive and or-
derly processes for rectifying these ills,
as well as demonstrating the high degree
of maturity and responsibility of so many
of our young people, I proudly and re-
spectfully submit Miss Morony's essay
for the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
I BELIEVE IN AMERICA
Today our country seems to be at a turn-
ing point. America is facing dark days which
threaten her very existence. All around us
are problems, many of a natural variety and
others wholly manmade. Among us are those
who live daily with poverty and hunger. The
air we breathe, the water we drink, the cities
we live in, are all fouled by dirt and pollu-
tion. Overpopulation threatens to outstrjp
our food supply in a few short decades. Our
involvement in Vietnam has divided our
country into two separate camps. A desire
by minority groups to be afforded the same
opportunities and privileges as all Americans
has resulted in serious racial strife, particu-
larly in our larger cities. Our educational
system is at a crossroads where the authority
of our universities and colleges is being
challenged by campus rebels who sit-in,
demonstrate, riot, burn, bomb, and destroy;
and these unfortunate conditions are now,
In some cases, even spreading to our high
schools and grammar schools. Many believe
that family life in the United States is de-
teriorating and that marriage and the fam-
ily, as we know it today, will soon be out-
moded and obsolete. The influence and pres-
tige of the church is declining and the struc-
ture of religious belief is undergoing great
change. We are in the midst of a sexual
revolution, heightened by the advent of "the
pill," which is reshaping codes and morals
which have been in existence for centuries.
The degree of alcoholism in the United
States is alarmingly high. Drug abuse, espe-

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
cially among young people, is increasing
every day, and threatens to run beyond the
limits of control. Patriotism is "square;"
avoiding the draft by any possible means is
the prime objective of many young male
Americans. Law, order, and our system of
justice in the courts are being undermined
by thugs and revolutionaries who seek to
destroy these three basic cornerstones of a
free society. They denounce the police and
call them pigs, storm troopers, and racists.
The police are stoned, clubbed, jeered, and
spat upon. They are charged with brutality
if they raise their clubs against those who
riot and create disorder. They are charged
with condoning violence if they fail to raise
their clubs against the disrupters. Contempt
for the courts and personal verbal attacks
upon judges In obscene gutter language are
the deliberate patterns of behavior of those
who believe that the law must not prevail.
Recently Vice President Agnew declared his
belief that the overriding and compelling
issue of the day is not inflation or the Viet-
nam War, but is the question of whether
the government of this country will remain
in the hands of its elected officials or will
descend to the streets.
Although the problems and social ills of
today are among the most serious ever to
face our nation, I am confident that the
strength and will of a majority of the
American people will see us through these
perilous times. I say this because I believe
in America.
"I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands . . ." These words
ring with meaning in the hearts of all true
Americans. They do not ask us to follow
blindly laws that axe unjust, nor do they
deny the right to dissent. To good Ameri-
cans, these words mean that through the
orderly rule of the majority we seek to
promote the good of all people, finding unity
and progress in the differences that exist
among us.
A minority of Americans is trying to
destroy our country by violence and discord.
Much has been said in recent years about
individual rights. Some have used this ap-
peal to justify rioting, looting, and killing.
Those who thus openly defy the law invade
the rights of others, the same rights that
the violators claim to seek for themselves.
Liberty can   exist only in  an   orderly
society. The so-called "silent majority" sim-
ply will not permit its liberty to be lost to
those who openly attack our country. They
will use every lawful means at their disposal
to assure that America will survive.
America is her people. Most of her people
are good Americans. I believe in them.
Therefore, I believe in America.
WAGE-PRICE CONTROLS NOT THE
ONLY ANSWER
HON. EDWARD J. DERWINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 10, 1970
Mr. DERWINSKI. Mr. Speaker, my
mail has reflected the views of many con-
stituents concerning the situation of the
economy, specifically the battle against
inflation. An editorial in the Thursday,
August 20 Tribune of Harvey, Ill., ef-
fectively discusses the subject and is, I
believe, an objective commentary on the
economic situation:
WAGE-PRICE CONTROLS NOT THE ONLY ANSWER
The Nixon Administration's fight on in-
flation continues, but the outcome appears

September 10, 1970
still very much in the balance and leaning
towards the critical side of the scale.
Not encouraging are the latest monthly
figures which show inflation continuing, at
a slightly faster pace, in the past month.
Also, the Ford Motor company has just an-
nounced automobile price hikes of about five
per cent for 1971 models and other car deal-
ers are sure to follow. This means that most
new cars are likely to be from $100 to $200
higher-some even more.
In this connection, the failure of the gov-
ernment to check    inflation  recently led
George Meany to hint that price and wage
controls may be necessary to halt the up-
ward spiral. Meany, president of the AFL-
CIO, says he isn't yet in favor of such con-
trols but that they might be the only remedy
to a "dangerous situation."
Others-some members of Congress-have
also recently expressed the view that wage
and price controls are the answer. It's prob-
ably accurate to say that at no other time
in the nation's post-war history have more
