and maintenance services to sell. Research-
ers and specialists apply the best solutions
to clients' problems independently and ob.
jectively.
Multi-discipline  technical  capabilities.
Computer science, engineering, telecom-
munications, computer security, artificial in-
telligence, and physical and social sciences
are representative of the areas that can be
directed to problem-solving, Multi-discipline
project teams and rapid response to clients'
needs are common.
The 'best national technical resources to
perform any task. DOE applied research fa-
cilities procure subcontract support as nec-
essary. This allows program flexibility and
focuses the best technical expertise avail-
able on national problems. Ninety-seven
(97%) percent of the 1985-1989 subcontract
technical support to the DOE/Oak Ridge
WFO programs was acquired competitively.
Lessons learned. Many individual agencies
confront variations of the same technical
problem. For example, both the Depart-
ments of Defense and State have secure
world-wide computer networks. DOE uses
the lessons learned in solving one agency's
problems to address similar problems for
the other agency. This approach is cost ef-
fective and efficient. It is particularly appli-
cable to intra-agency problems for which
consistency and future interconnectivity are
considerations.
Continuity of expertise over time. Re-
searchers gain expertise and experience in
technical areas as they move from one
project to another, This serves to build the
Government's cumulative experience base
to solve critical technological problems. It
also builds a cadre of professionals with
cross-agency experience.
Control of classified and sensitive infor-
mation. DOE security standards are among
the most stringent in the Federal Govern-
ment. DOE staff and facilities can accept re-
search projects of the highest sensitivity
with special security access.
Noncompetition with the private sector.
Stringent operating procedures limit the
program to work involving RD&D, applied
research, and analysis. A DOE research ac-
tivity can develop a system through proto-
type demonstration, testing, and transition
planning. System implementation, oper-
ation, and maintenance is the responsibility
of the sponsor agency.
IMPACT OF DOE WFO ON GOVERNMENT
INFORMATION SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY
DOE WFO Program has a distinguished
record of success solving key information
system problems for other government
agencies efficiently and economically. Spe-
cific examples include:
Solutions to the problem of inordinately
high inventories of excess parts for the U.S.
Army. Procedural changes recommended by
the DOE team should result in savings to
the Army of hundreds of millions of dollars
over a 10-year period.
The DOE WFO program support the De-
partment of the Treasury, identifying vul-
nerabilities in a multi-billion dollar payment
system, and evaluating contingency plan-
ning and disaster recovery capabilities for

September 18, 1990
Regional Finance Centers' data systems.
Data systems researchers also perform secu-
rity analyses on components of the Depart-
ment of State Foreign Affairs Information
Systems Network (PAIS).
Using DOE's WFO program to develop
the U.S. Navy Civilian Personnel Data
System (NCPDS) saved the Navy approxi-
mately $40 million.
Data systems research personnel applied
advanced information technology to reverse
engineering resulting in a 50% reduction in
the unit costs of certain spare parts. The es-
timated potential savings cumulative for a
number of projects is estimated to be more
than $200 million.
The DOE WFO Program is a leading ex-
ample of successful implementation of rec-
ommendations made by the Defense Science
Board Task Force on Military Software.
Recommendation #12: "Use evolutionary
acquisition,  including  simulation  and
prototyping .... to reduce risk."
Interagency agreements and the tailoring
of subsequent task statements of work ac-
commodate the evolutionary acquisition
portion of this recommendation by allowing
for integration of software produced for
government, industry and academia. The
Military Airlift Command's (MAC) Airlift
Deployment Analysis System (ADANS) is a
prototype system that is already making an
impact on easing the MAC's command, con-
trol, and scheduling workloads.
Recommendation #23: .".. Mandate the
Iterative setting of specifications, the rapid
prototyping of specified systems, and incre-
mental development."
Interagency agreements with the US Air
Force led to the development of the Air
Force Command and Control Systems Mod-
ernization Methodology. This software and
architectural methodology emphasized re-
quirements definition and was adopted by
the Air Force Standard Systems Center. It
enabled placement of a successful competi-
tive contract for Air Force Standard Sys-
tems modernization.
A requirements-based approach was fol-
lowed in developing a prototype Wing Com-
mand and Control System (WCCS) for
United States Air Forces Europe (USAFE).
The success of this effort let to competitive
implementation of the program throughout
the Air Force.
CONCLUSION
The U.S. Department of Energy's Work
for Other Federal Agencies program is a su-
perlative vehicle for economically and effi-
ciently focusing the best technical resources
available to address agency needs, and by its
success, national issues of productivity and
competitiveness.
CENTENNIAL OF SQUIRE
SANDERS & DEMPSEY
HON. MARY ROSE OAKAR
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday September 13, 1990
Ms. OAKAR. Mr. Speaker, I wish to take
this occasion to congratulate the international
law firm of Squire Sanders & Dempsey of
Cleveland, OH on its centennial anniversary.
Squire Sanders & Dempsey opened its doors
In Cleveland on January 1, 1890 and contin-
ues practicing under its original name today.
The firm has grown to more than 425 lawyers



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0801.txt

September 18, 1990
In 8 cities in the United States and Europe
and very ably serves clients in virtually all
parts of the world.
During its illustrious lifetime, Squire Sanders
& Dempsey has participated in a rich tableau
of world history including the election of Gov.
William McKinley to the Presidency of the
United States and his reelection in 1900, serv-
ice as special counsel to the Federal Govern-
ment in the Teapot Dome scandal during the
Harding administration to post-war slum clear-
ance and urban development.
Of particular note is the firm's commitment
to community involvement. The lawyers of
Squire Sanders & Dempsey believe strongly in
community participation whether it is In Cleve-
land, New York or Brussels, Belgium. All of
these communities are richer for this dedica-
tion to involvement.
IN HONOR OF PHILIP
PERLMUTTER
HON. BARNEY FRANK
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 13, 1990
Mr. FRANK. Mr. Speaker, on Monday, the
current and past leaders of the Jewish Com-
munity Relations Council of Greater Boston
will gather for an event that will be both sad
and cheerful. The event, which I hope to
attend if legislative business allows, Is a re-
ception In honor of Philip Perlmutter who is re-
tiring as executive director of the Jewish Com-
munity Relations Council of Boston after many
years of extraordinarily able service.
Obviously this Is a sad moment for us be-
cause we will lose Phil's service In this Impor-
tant position. But it is a cheering one because
it is an occasion in which we will celebrate
Phil's work, and the values of decency, schol.
arship, and community which he has so bril-
liantly represented.
Phil Perlmutter is, happily for those of us
who have had the benefit of his leadership in
these past years, an unusual combination of
talents. He is a scholar of considerable talent,
with a particular interest in relations between
and among various communities in our socie-
ty. He is a forceful and brilliant advocate on
behalf of a wide range of causes-antidiscrim-
Ination legislation, an American foreign policy
which recognizes our strong national interest
in firm ties between America and Israel, an
educational system which allows everyone in
this country to reach his or her fullest poten-
tial and other important matters. He also has
a capacity for friendship which has meant a
great deal to the many of us who have bene-
fitted from it. In my work first in the Massachu.
setts Legislature and now in the U.S. House
of Representatives, he is one of the people
on whom I have frequently relied for advice,
suggestions, and, when the occasion warrant-
ed it, the kind of helpful criticism that is an In-
valuable gift from a friend.
Phil has earned his right to retirement and
none of us begrudge it. But our regret at this
changing of the guard is strongly mitigated by
knowing that he will continue to be an extraor-
dinary asset We are all very lucky that Phil
was so willing to devote his very considerable
talents to work on behalf of others.

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
THE 300TH ANNIVERSARY OF ST.
JOHN'S CHURCH, HOLLYWOOD,
MD
HON. ROY DYSON
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 13, 1990
Mr. DYSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
pay tribute to the parishoners of St. John's
Church, who are celebrating the church's
300th anniversary on September 15, 1990,
Located in Hollywood, MD, St. John's parish
was established In 1690 and Is among the
oldest Catholic parishes in the State of Mary-
land. St. John's Is the largest Catholic parish
in St. Mary's County with a congregation of
over 800 families. St. John's Church has roots
deeply embedded in the historic religious cul-
ture of St. Mary's County.
Mr. Speaker, it is with great pride that I
salute the history of St. John's Church, and I
know that my colleagues join me In congratu-
lating the church's parishioners and its pastor,
Father Martin Harris, on this historic occasion.
TRIBUTE TO THE COMMUNITY
CHURCH      OF    DOUGLASTON,
75TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. JAMES H. SCHEUER
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 13, 1990
Mr. SCHEUER. Mr. Speaker, 75 years ago,
11 men gathered on a Sunday afternoon in
April at the home of Charles M. Burtis with the
Rev. Ulysses Grant Warren. it was 1915, and
they were to make decisions that would
change lives and better a community.
A week later 30 members gathered at the
Douglas Manor Inn-now the Douglaston
Club-to organize. A new church community
was born. The infant congregation leased a
former plumbing shop on Main Avenue, using
only a pot-bellied stove for warmth.
In 1916 a Young People's Society and a
Women's Guild were formed. The next year, a
constitution, bylaws, and creed were adopted.
In 1918 the church voted to affiliate with the
Reformed Church of America. The growing
young church made plans for a new building.
Mr. Speaker, the congregation continued to
grow by leaps, and plans for a newer, larger
building were called for in 1923. Over the
years, the membership grew, and the church
expanded its size and ministry.
By the 50th anniversary in 1965, various ad-
ditions and renovations had been made, and
the church would soon enter its most vibrant
period.
Mr. Speaker, in 1972 Rev. John H. Meyer
was installed as pastor, and he has been
there for the past 18 years. During this time,
the church has become a cornerstone in com-
munity involvement, and a number of civil
groups use the church buildings and Fellow-
ship hall as a home for their meetings.
The church is the home of the Blanton-Plele
Counseling Center, one of the Nation's oldest
and most respected church-affiliated thera-
peutic services. The church is also involved in

24501
the arts, and sponsors music and theatre
series. Support for culture is an ongoing priori-
ty.
The church is a haven for children, offering
Sunday school, nursery school, an after-
school program, and a young group.
Mr. Speaker, the Community Church of
Douglaston has become a landmark In the
region for its openness and warmth. Its devo-
tion to the spiritual health of the community,
as well as to culture, civil pride, and education
has made all our lives better ones for the past
75 years.
KILDEE SALUTES FLINT
HISPANIC AWARDS CEREMONY
HON. DALE E. KILDEE
OF MICHICAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 13, 1990
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, it is with great
pride that I rise today to pay tribute to the His-
panic awards ceremony that will be held in
Flint, MI, on Sunday, September 16,1990.
Every year the Hispanic community of Gen-
esee County holds an awards ceremony in
conjunction with National Hispanic Heritage
Month to recognize outstanding members of
the community. This year's awards ceremony,
which is sponsored by local community volun-
teers, business merchants, the Spanish
Speaking Information Center and the Interna-
tional Institute, will honor citizens who have
contributed selflessly in the areas of service,
leadership, education, and labor. With festivi-
ties that include the ceremony followed by a
dance, the celebration will focus on the
myriad accomplishments of the growing His-
panic population whose culture and ideas will
be a positive shaping force for our great
Nation throughout the next century.
The four awards presented this year will
honor those individuals who have made the
community a better place to live. The Pedro
Mata Leadership Award which recognizes
those who identify opportunities, provide en-
couragement, and support the local communi-
ty will be given to Larry Cuevas for his out-
standing contributions in these areas. The
Tano Resendez Award for Service, which ac-
knowledges those who have dedicated per-
sonal time and effort to civic and cultural ac-
tivities, will be presented to Frank Barters who
has worked tirelessly to benefit his communi-
ty. The Joe Benavides Education Award will
be given to Margarita Calvo who has devoted
extra effort to support the educational needs
of Hispanics. Finally, in addition to these three
awards, the United Auto Workers will honor
Arturo Reyes who has advocated and promot-
ed the rights of all American workers.
All four recipients, Larry Cuevas, Frank Bar-
rera, Margarita Calvo, and Arturo Reyes, are
outstanding role models for all youth of every
background and ethnic heritage.
Mr. Speaker, I take great pride in commend-
ing the Hispanic Community of Flint for their
excellent work in promoting Hispanic culture
and Ideas and I congratulate them all for their
tremendous accomplishments.

39-059 0-91-26 (PL 171



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0802.txt

24502
ALICE GARRETT RECOGNIZED
FOR EXCELLENCE IN TEACHING
HON. DAVID E. PRICE
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 13, 1990
Mr. PRICE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay
tribute to a distinguished educator In my dis-
trict, Alice Garrett, who was recently recog-
nized for her outstanding contributions to
classroom education.
Mrs. Garrett, an American history and Afri-
can-American studies teacher at Athens Drive
High School In Raleigh, NC, was the recipient
of the National Council of Negro Women's
Southeastern Regional "Excellence in Teach.
Ing" award. This award was presented to
teachers displaying excellence in their profes-
sion and encouraging superior achievement
among African American Students. Mrs. Gar-
rett Is among the first to receive this award,
which was presented as part of the National
Black Family Reunion Celebration held here in
Washington, DC, last week.
Mrs. Garrett's achievements have had a tre-
mendous impact upon her students and com-
munity. In the classroom, she has Incorporat-
ed an African-American studies program Into
her American history curriculum. Mrs. Garrett
has used this program-entitled "A Great
Legacy"-to provide her students greater in-
sight Into black culture and Its Impact upon
the development of our Nation.
Mrs. Garrett has also developed and imple-
mented an annual countywide program salut-
ing minority educators In our area. She de-
signed this program to address the growing
teacher recruitment and retention problems in
North Carolina and has used it to encourage
more minority students to enter the field of
education.
Mrs. Garrett Is truly the kind of educator we
need In today's changing society. Her Ingenul-
ty and dedication have helped her students to
reach new heights culturally and educationally.
I congratulate her upon the receipt of this
richly deserved honor.
H.R. 5416
HON. ANDREW JACOBS, JR.
Or INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 13, 1990
Mr. JACOBS. Mr. Speaker, the following Is
the text of H.R. 5416:
H.R. 5416
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION I. NULLIFICATION OF PAY RAISES.
(a) NULLIFICATION OF COMPARABILITY AD-
jusTmENTs.-Effective as of the first day of
the first applicable pay period beginning on
or after the date of the enactment of this
Act, and until adjusted by or under law, the
rate of pay for each office or position under
subparagraphs (A) through (D) of section
225(f) of the Fedreal Salary Act of 1967 (2
U.S.C. 356(A)-(D)) shall be the rate payable
for such office or position as of November 1,
1989.

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
(b) REPEAL OF 25 PERCENT INcRXASs.-Sec-
tion 703 of the Ethics Reform Act of 1989 is
repealed.
(c) CLARIFYING PRoVISIoNS.-Nothing in
this section shall have the effect of reducing
the pay of any Individual whose compensa-
tion may not, under section 1 of article III
of the Constitution of the United States, be
diminished during such Individual's continu-
ance in office.
(d) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.-The last
sentence of section 603, and the last sen-
tence of section 804(f), of the Ethics Reform
Act of 1989 are repealed.
SEC. 2. CONTINUATION OF CURRENT ADJUSTMENT
METIIOD.
Section 704 of the Ethics Reform Act of
1989 is repealed.
TRIBUTE TO JAY DAVID
WATSON
HON. ROBERT J. LAGOMARSINO
or CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 13, 1990
Mr. LAGOMARSINO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute to Jay David Watson of
Santa Barbara, who recently retired after a
long and distinguished career In public serv-
ice.
Dave Is a native of Santa Barbara and a
1931 graduate of Santa Barbara Teachers
College. In that year, he joined the Santa Bar-
bara County Auditor's staff as deputy auditor.
He worked his way up through the ranks to
become the county purchasing agent In 1950,
and In 1956, he became the county's first ad-
ministrative officer, retiring In 1968 after 33
years of service.
Like many of his generation, Dave saw
service in World War II, serving 4 years in the
Pacific Theater with the U.S. Navy. He retired
from the Naval Reserve at age 60 with the
rank of commander, having served 43 years.
In 1969, he was appointed president of the
board of trustees of the Goleta Cemetery Dis-
trict, a nonpaying position. During 21 years on
the board, he has been responsbile for many
programs directed at making the district a pro-
fessional and respected government agency,
able to serve the needs of Santa Barbara resi-
dents for many years into the future.
Dave is also active In the Presbyterian
Church, serving 1 year as administrator. All
told, Dave's service to his community totals
an astounding 109 years-a remarkable
record of public service.
Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the U.S. House of
Representatives, I join with Dave Watson's
fellow citizens In commending and congratu-
lating him for his services to the Santa Bar-
bara community, and In wishing he and his
wife, Madan McCandless, with whom he has
just celebrated their 59th wedding anniversary,
a happy and rewarding retirement.

September 1, 1990
THE ENERGY SECURITY CON-
NECTION: NUCLEAR ENERGY
DISPLACEMENT OF FOREIGN
OIL
HON. WILLIAM E. DANNEMEYER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 13, 1990
Mr. DANNEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, with the
price of gas going up at the pumps and with
the threat of a possible oil supply Interruption
as a result of the serious situation In the
Middle East, it would appear at first blush that
not many things have changed since the first
energy crisis In the early 1970's.
We still do not have a coherent national
energy strategy. We are still overly reliant on
Imported oil. And we are still highly vulnerable
to the oil politics in the Middle East.
In the midst of these hard realities, there is
some good news in the energy area-that Is
the important role that the growth in nuclear
energy has played in reducing United States
and world dependence on Imported oil. A
recent analysis by the Science Concept, Inc.,
commissioned by the U.S. Council on Energy
Awareness, sheds new light on nuclear ener-
gy's energy security connection and Its dis-
placement on foreign oil.
Among the findings of the report are:
Since 1973, nuclear energy has displaced a
total of 4.3 billion barrels of oil in the United
States;
To date, our investment In nuclear energy
has saved the United States $125 billion In
foreign oil payments;
Nuclear energy has played a major role in
weaning our domestic reliance on oil for elec-
trification. Use of oil for electricity has been
reduced to 5.6 percent of total U.S. electrical
output, down from doubled-digits in the
1970's; and
The report does note that oil use for electric
generation has been Increasing since 1988, a
trend that should concern all of us.
This report is convincing evidence both for
a national energy strategy that promotes an
expanded role for our domestic energy re-
sources and for a strong role for nuclear
energy in any national energy strategy.
I commend to my colleagues the text of the
Science Concept report:
THE ENERGY SECURITY CONNECTION: NUCLEAR
ENERGY DIsPLActxENT OF FOREIGN OIL
(By Science Concepts, Inc.)
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Principal Conclusions
Nuclear energy has played a major role in
reducing U.S. and world dependence on im-
ported oil. Nuclear energy has allowed utili-
ties to shut down or idle oil-burning power
plants, and eliminated the need to build new
oil-fired plants to meet the growth in elec-
tric demand.
In the U.S., this trend Is now In Jeopardy.
Since 1988, oil use for electric generation
has been increasing. If all existing oil-fired
capacity were put Into service to meet rising
electric demand, U.S. oil imports would rise
by nearly 3 million barrels per day.
For the United States:
Since the 1973 Arab oil embargo nucinar
energy has directly eliminated the need to



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0803.txt

September 1, 1990
import a cumulative total of 4.3 billion bar-
rels of oil. Every day, U.S. nuclear plants
displace 740,000 barrels of imported oil.
The investment in the nation's 112 li-
censed nuclear plants has, so far, saved the
United States $125 billion in foreign oil pay-
ments.
For the world (including the U.S.)
Since 1973, nuclear energy has displaced a
total of 15.5 billion barrels of oil, with virtu-
ally all of this representing a loss to OPEC.
The world's investment in 428 operating
nuclear plants has, so far, eliminated a cu-
mulative total of $420 billion in oil pur-
chases.
Nearly 6 million barrels per day of oil are
now displaced by nuclear energy worldwide,
equal to one-third of Persian Gulf oil pro-
duction. This reduction in oil demand is half
again as much as the 4-million-barrel-per-
day output from the North Sea.
This analysis is based on a detailed retro.
spective evaluation of all the fuels (coal, oil
and natural gas) that would have been used
to generate electricity if nuclear energy
plants had not been built. The analysis re-
moves nuclear electricity from the electric
supply picture, then considers practical and
available alternative fuels for electricity
generation. The analysis totals the volume
of all the fuels that would have been used
each year since 1973, in a regional basis for
the U.S. and for each nation worldwide.
I. INTRODUCTION
Until recently, lower oil prices and stabili-
ty in the Middle East eroded public recogni-
tion of the hazards of growing reliance on
imported oil, and the importance to nation-
al security of assured, domestic sources of
energy.
With U.S. oil imports rising and reaching
50 percent of demand this year, attention
will return, as it has after each oil crisis, to
the question: "How can the U.S. reduce its
growing reliance on oil imports?"
Because the U.S. is, for geological reasons,
a mature, largely exhausted oil province,
and because our appetite for oil greatly ex-
ceeds domestic oil production, the U.S. has
been an importer for nearly 40 years. Thus,
any actions that reduce oil use directly
reduce oil imports.
There are three ways to reduce oil I'm-
ports: (1) produce more domestic oil from
available but limited resources: (2) improve
the efficiency of oil use in situations where
oil must be used; and (3) replace oil with
other domestic fuels. Clearly. the U.S. needs
to pursue all reasonable technologies or ac-
tivities that can accomplish any of these
while meeting basic economic and environ-
mental criteria.
This analysis addresses the role of nuclear
energy in replacing oil in electricity genera-
tion. In 1989, oil was used to produce only
5.6 percent of total U.S. electrical output.
This low national reliance on oil for electric-
ity generation is largely a consequence of
the construction of new non-oil-fired power
plants. Withcut nuclear energy plants, oil
use for electricity generation in the U.S.
would be substantially higher today.
n. SOURCES or NEW U.S. ELECTRICITY SUPPLY
SINCE 1973
From 1973 to 1989, the direct (i.e., non-
electric) use of energy declined by 4 per-
cent., During the same period, however, the
Footnotes at end of article.

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
consumption of electricity increased by 54
percent.' The U.S. consumed increasing
amounts   of   electricity  and  decreasing
amounts of oil, (GNP rose 51 percent during
the same period.')
The growth in electricity demand from
1973 to 1989 required the equivalent output
of 175 one-thousand-megawatt generating
stations.4 At the same time, the amount of
electricity produced from existing oil-burn-
ing stations declined. Replacing the electric
supply from this declining oil-fired produc-
tion required the equivalent of 30 more one-
thousand-megawatt generating stations.' Al-
together, the equivalent of 205 new one-
thousand.megawatt    generating   stations
were needed to meet both new demand and
to reduce oil use.6 Between 1973 and 1989.
95 percent of all new electric supply came
from coal and nuclear energy (59 percent
and 36 percent, respectively).
As U.S. electric demand continues to grow,
and with few new nuclear and coal-fired
plants being built, utilities will increasingly
turn to existing oil-fired generating capac-
ity. The data suggests this is already occur-
ring-oil use for electric generation rose
from 546,000 barrels per day in 1987, to
731,000 barrels per day last year.
As the following table shows, some regions
of the country remain very dependent on oil
for current electricity needs. The table also
shows how much of each region's electricity
needs would be oil-fired if all the existing
oil-fired capability were put into service.
This contrast between actual oil use and po-
tential oil use shows that oil-fired units
have, literally, been put on the "back
burner" because of new non-oil capacity
built since 1973. It also illustrates the poten-
tial for increased oil use by utilities. If all
existing oil capacity were put into service,
U.S. oil imports would rise by 3 million bar-
rels per day.
1989 OIL-FIRED GENERATION COMPARED TO OIL-FIRED
CAPACITY
Actual  Od shale ol
depndence  total
Ge~ira c region  NERC rel  on oit 0 or  installed
electric  generating
09A)     ,t,~
least Central ..........[.C........ [CAR .. .............  0  4
Texas........... 0T... ....... ....  02  13
Mil-d tlantic .................... MM C .............. ..........  . 8  24
M A   .... ....  MAIN....... ........ .02  12
Mid.Contrnent.  MAP............................  0.4  12
Northeast ................. NPCC  ................. ...  . 28  46
Southest ........ .. ..... SERC  ....................  ... 3  13
Sooiwest  .. ..   SM . ..... .  .......  01  25
W estern .................. .   WSOC .......................  0.4  24
Total United States ...  (See map next  56  19
page) I.
Map not reprodde in the Record
I1. HOW OIL IS DISPLACED BY NUCLEAR ENERGY
In some simple and isolated cases, the con-
struction of a nucler plant directly and com-
pletely displaces only oil. This would have
been the case on Long Island, N.Y., with the
Shoreham nuclear power plant. Normally,
however, the absence of nuclear capacity
would have been made up from a mix of
fuels. The model on which this analysis is
based considers the probable mix of fuels
that would have been used year by year-in
the U.S.. region by region; in the world,
country by country.
To avoid biasing the analysis towards oil
use, the model treats oil as the fuel of last
resort in virtually all cases.' To replace the
electricity that would be lost without nucle-
ar energy, the analysis assumes that energy

24503
sources would be used in the following order
of priories to the maximum extent available
in each region and year considered: Hydro
power, coal-fired units, expanded use of ex-
isting coal-fired units, completion of can-
celled coal-fired units, gas-fired steam units,
expanded use of existing gas-fired units, oil-
fired steam units, expanded use of existing
oil-fired units, gas-fired turbines, and oil-
fired turbines.
This analysis assumes the maximum rea-
sonable utilization of coal capacity before
bringing in new oil and gas capacity. The
analysis also takes Into account the fact
that no additional gas could have been used
for electrical generation prior to 1983 be-
cause the Power Plant and Industrial Fuel
Use Act restricted the use of gas in utility
boilers. After 1983, a deliverability surplus
of natural gas could have contributed to
electrical supply. These amounts are allo-
cated to each region where required accord-
ing to the maximum quantities of natural
gas that could have been available in the
region.
In addition to direct displacement of oil in
electric generation, this anaylsis also in-
cludes oil displaced by nuclear electricity in
end-use heating applications. Electricity is a
competitive fuel for many residential, com-
mercial and industrial heating needs due to
the much higher efficiency with which it
can be used.'
A conservative estimate of the amount of
oil displaced by electricity in the market-
place can be derived from considering only
space heating applications. About 15 per-
cent of all electricity consumed is used for
heating. Thus, in 1989, 15 percent of the nu-
clear electricity was (on average) used for
heating purposes. One-half of this heat
would typically be provided by oil if electric-
ity were not available.'
IV. U.S. OIL IMPORTS DISPLACED BY NUCLEAR
ENERGY
This analysis finds that the nuclear ener-
gy's contribution to national security has
been substantial. Nuclear energy eliminated
the need to import 270 million barrels of oil
in 1989, and a cumulative total of 4.3 billion
barrels of oil between 1973 and 1989. This
contribution will continue to grow over the
30- to 40-year operating life of most nuclear
power plants. The analysis also identifies a
cumulative displacement of I billion tons of
coal and 6.5 trillion cubic feet of natural gas
since 1973.
The cumulative $140-billion investment in
112 licensed nuclear plants in the United
States has already eliminated a cumulative
total of more than $125 billion of foreign oil
payments (constant 1989 dollars). This ben-
efit will continue to mount since nuclear
U.S. plants will operate for years to come
and ultimately deliver four times as much
energy as they have already supplied. The
strategic and economic benefits can be con-
tinued even further if nuclear plant operat-
ing licenses are renewed,
As the following data and figure illustrate
(figure not reproducible in the Record),
most of the oil displaced by nucler power is
in the three eastern regions of the United
States: over 80 percent of the 4.3 billion bar-
rels of oil displaced between 1973 and 1989
is in three regions: NPCC (New York and
New England), MAAC (Mid-Atlantic) and
SERC (Southeast).



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0804.txt

24504
AMOUNT OF FUEL DISPLACED BY NUCLEAR ENERGY IN THE
GENERATION OF ELECTRICITY
[By NERC rege. 1973-89
NE  e io   o t  i k d G as  01l~ d Od d s ~ e
C ol  tnsp )ce  (t fiN u=   ( il
N[  lm  (~l tos)    feet)   Lbarrell
ECAR  ..3.................................  12  37  80
ERCOT ..................................  2  71  go
M  C...................................  8  6172  1
MAIN  ...................................  256  160  342
KAW   ....................................  10   40  250
NPCC  ....................................   38  10  1,073
SERC ..................  341     1,126      1,321
Spp ..................................... 2?  1,455  113
WSC ................     37      1,985      301
Total United States ..........  1,000  6,450  4,320
V. WORLD PERSPECTIVE: OIL DISPLACED BY
NUCLEAR ENERGY
In 1973, over one-fourth of the world's
electricity was produced by burning oil. By
1989, however, despite a large Increase in
electric demand, oil generated less than 10
percent of the world's electricity. Nuclear
energy played a major role In this turna.
round. In 1989, nuclear energy directly dis-
placed almost 6 million barrels of oil per
day, as well as a yearly total of 3.3 trillion
cubic feet of gas and 200 million tons of
coal. From 1973 through 1989, nuclear
energy displaced the burning of a cumula-
tive total of 15.5 billion barrels of oil world-
wide and avoided $420 billion in oil pur-
chases, mostly from OPEC.
As the following figure illustrates (illus-
tration not reproducible in the RECORD), the
United States was not the only nation to
reduce its use of oil for electric generation-
even as overall electricity consumption
grew. The data below summarize the world-
wide displacement of oil by nuclear energy.
(For details of the analysis and Information
on other fuels displaced by nuclear energy,
see "The Impact of the World's Electric
Generation Sector and Nuclear Power on
OPEC Oil Markets," Science Concepts, Inc.,
July 1989.)
OIL DISPLACED AND OIL PURCHASES AVOIDED BY NUCLEAR
ENERGY WORLDWIDE, CUMULATIVE 1973-89
01 i, 4d  prchases
(tollio barels)  a dd(zl
I'9 dollars)
North Anenca                    48           139
Western Europe .............. ...   64     195
USSR........................     13          45
Rest of the WAC                30           43
World ....................... 155          420
REFERENCES AND NOTES
'DOE/EIA. Monthly Energy Review, April 1990.
* Based on utility sales.
DOE/EIA. Monthly Energy Review, April 1990:
$2.74 Trillion ($1982) In 1973. increased to $4.1 tril-
lion ($1982) In 1989.
4 Calculation based on a difference between 1973
and 1989 electricity generation of 920 billion kwh;
an average capacity factor of 60%; 5.26 billion
kwhr/1000 MW.
Monthly Energy Review, April 1990: A drop of
156 billion kwh In oil generation between 1973 and
1989.
*1988 Capacity and Generation of Non-Utility
Sources of Energy, Edison Electric Institute, April
1990; Non-utility alternative sources include: blo-
mass (primarily wood), waste, solar, and geother.
mal. Note that all these sources provide 27% of
total non-utility generation. Total non-utility gen-
eration is 3% of total utility supply. This need for
additional electricity supply could, In theory, have
been met by means as varied as conventional fossil
fuel capacity, wood burning, wind mills, additional
hydropower, geothermal power and even solar

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
power. The use of smaller, alternative power
sources has expanded rapidly over the past decade
making significant regional contributions. But even
though alternative energy generation has increased
dramatically, it still accounts for less than 2 per-
cent of all electrical energy produced. Between 1973
and 1989, coal and nuclear energy provided 95%-59
percent and 38 percent respectively-of all new
electrical supply. Coal and nuclear power have been
the primary sources of all new electricity since
1973.
7 Some oil-fired steam units are utilized in base-
load operation before coal-fired units in the South-
west, Northeast and West.
0 See, for example, the following Research Briefs
from the Institute for Energy Analysis: The Role of
Electricity in Home Heating, C.C. Burwell, D.L.
Phung, February 1986; The Role of Electricity in
Glass Making. C.C, Burwell, December 1985; The
Rote of Electricity in American Industry. Update,
C.C. Burwell, June 1985; Electricity and the Pulp
and Paper Industry, C.C. Burwell. May 1985; Elec-
tric Steelmaking: Recent Trends and Future Con-
straints, C.C. Burwell, May 1984.
0 Calculation based on (529 million nuclear kwh)
X (the fraction of electricity used for heat, 0.15) X
(the proportion of electric heat displacing oil, 50%)
X (the number of BTUs in a kwhr, 3412) X (the
typical difference between the heating efficiency of
electricity and burning oil, 3) divided by (the
number of BTUs in a barrel of oil, 5.8 million).
KILDEE PRAISES FLINT
HISPANIC COMMUNITY
HON. DALE E. KILDEE
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 13, 1990
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, as a fitting tribute
to Hispanic Heritage Month, I rise today to
recognize the outstanding contributions of the
Hispanic community in the city of Flint.
Continuing a rich tradition of civic participa-
tion, the Hispanic community of Flint contin-
ues to make tremendous contributions to the
development of our city. Hispanic profession-
als have become important role models for
our youth and have greatly added to the qual-
ity of life In Flint. With the diversity and wealth
of their cultural heritage, the Hispanic commu-
nity has woven a full and beautiful pattern into
the fabric of every corner of my district.
The Hispanic community has enriched not
only my district, but also the Nation as a
vhole. With important roles In government,
the arts, education, labor, business, science,
and every niche of society, the ever-growing
presence of the Hispanic community is a vi-
brant force in America that Is helping to shape
the future of our great Nation.
It is truly an honor to recognize the Hispanic
community and their outstanding efforts to
promote cultural diversity and understanding.
You are to be commended for your tremen-
dous accomplishments.
A CONGRESSIONAL SALUTE TO
CRAIG R. NEALIS
HON. GLENN M. ANDERSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
