regard to section 116)" before the comma.

(3) Subparagraph (B) of section 86(b)(2) is
amended to read as follows:
-(B) increased by the sum of-
"(i) the amount of interest received or ac-
crued by the taxpayer during the taxable
year which is exempt from tax, and
--(Ii) the amount of interest and dividends
received during the taxable year which are
excluded from gross income under section
116.".
(4) Subsection (d) of section 135 is amended
by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph
(5) and by inserting after paragraph (3) the
following new paragraph:
"(4) COORDINATION WITH SECTION 16.-This
section shall be applied before section 116.".
(5) Paragraph (2) of section 265(a) is amend-
ed by inserting before the period "', or to pur-
chase or carry obligations or shares, or to
make deposits, to the extent the interest
thereon is excludable from  gross income
under section 116".
(6) Subsection (c) of section 584 is amended
by adding at the end the following new flush
sentence:
"The proportionate share of each participant
in the amount of dividends or interest re-
ceived by the common trust fund and to
which section 116 applies shall be considered
for purposes of such section as having been
received by such participant.".
(7) Subsection (a) of section 643 is amended
by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph
(8) and by inserting after paragraph (6) the
following new paragraph:
"(7) DIVIDENDS OR INTEREST.-There shall
be included the amount of any dividends or
interest excluded from gross income pursu-
ant to section 116.".
(8) Section 854(a) is amended by inserting
"section 116 (relating to partial exclusion of
dividends and interest received by individ-
uals) and" after 'For purposes of".
(9) Section 857(c) is amended to read as fol-
lows:
"(c) RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO DIVI-
DENDS RECEIVED FROM REAL ESTATE INVEST-
MENT TRUSTS.-
"(1) TREATMENT FOR SECTION 116.-For pur-
poses of section 116 (relating to partial exclu-
sion of dividends and interest received by in-
dividuals), a capital gain dividend (as defined
in subsection (b)(3)(C)) received from a real
estate investment trust which meets the re-
quirements of this part shall not be consid-
ered as a dividend.
"(2) TREATMENT FOR SECTION 243.-For pur-
poses of section 243 (relating to deductions
for dividends received by corporations)' a
dividend received from a real estate invest-
ment trust which meets the requirements of
this part shall not be considered as a divi-
dend.".
(10) The table of sections for part III of
subchapter B of chapter 1 is amended by In-
serting after the item relating to section 115
the following new item:
"See. 116. Partial exclusion of dividends and
interest received by individ-
uals.".
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.-The amendments
made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2000.
By Mr. LEVIN:
S. 3088. A bill to require the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to promulgate
regulations regarding allowable costs under
the Medicaid Program for school based serv-
ices provided to children with disabilities; to
the Committee on Finance.
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES ADJUSTMENT
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, today I
am introducing legislation which pro-

vides fair relief to schools in Michigan
and other states.
In 1993, the state of Michigan and our
school districts worked out an agree-
ment which would provide schools a
portion of Federal Medicaid dollars
based on school based health related
activities that were being provided to
eligible children receiving special edu-
cation services. When these school su-
perintendents looked around in 1996,
they saw a similarly situated state
which was providing administrative
services to help special needs kids, and
they decided to follow suit for children
in Michigan. Michigan then imple-
mented the Administrative Outreach
component of school based services
based on a program that had been in
operation in that state for the previous
two years.
Recently, HCFA    disallowed $103.6
million in claims submitted by the
state of Michigan to reimburse the
schools for services already rendered in
this effort. It is simply unfair that
these school districts are now being pe-
nalized when they have been trying to
provide health services through the
schools for special needs kids in ways
used in other states and after relying
on HCFA regional guidance.
I have met with a large group of
Michigan school superintendents and
their staff and I know how committed
they are to helping children with spe-
cial needs. Apparently. the rules need
to be clarified, and in a meeting with
HCFA that the Michigan superintend-
ents had this week, HCFA committed
to sitting down with the education
community by the end of this month to
finalize an administrative guide re-
garding  claims for reimbursement.
That is surely an appropriate goal, but
in the meantime, Michigan claims have
been disallowed although the state re-
lied on regional HCFA guidance. While
national guidance is being clarified, we
should not penalize states who have
acted reasonably based on existing
guidance.
I believe Michigan school super-
intendents when they say they believed
they were acting appropriately in pro-
viding services for children with spe-
cial educational needs. These are hon-
est hardworking people trying to run
school districts on tight budgets. I am
introducing this legislation because I
believe any attempt to penalize schools
who acted in good faith will ultimately
hurt special needs kids as well as our
schools themselves.
By Mr. ALLARD (for himself and
Mr. CAMPBELL):
S. 3090. A bill to establish the Rocky Flats
National Wildlife Refuge in the State of Col-
orado, and for other purposes: to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
ROCKY FLATS NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE ACT
OF 2000
Mr. ALLARD. Mr. President, I rise
today, with Senator BEN NIGHTHORSE
CAMPBELL, to introduce a very impor-
tant piece of legislation for my state of

18930



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0929.txt

September 21, 2000

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

Colorado and this nation-The Rocky
Flats National Wildlife Refuge Act. My
colleague.   Representative   MARK
UDALL, is introducing companion legis-
lation in the House cosponsored by the
entire Colorado delegation.
Today we begin a new chapter in the
history of Rocky Flats. This legisla-
tion will permanently designate the
Rocky   Flats  Environmental Tech-
nology Site as a National Wildlife Ref-
uge following the cleanup and closure
of the site. It ensures that the Federal
Government will retain full liability
and ownership of this former nuclear
weapons facility. This legislation will
transform Rocky Flats from producing
weapons to protecting wildlife. It will
ensure that our children and grand-
children will be able to enjoy the wild-
life and open space that currently ex-
ists at Rocky Flats.
This is a tremendous achievement.
Once the bill is enacted, we will see
Rocky Flats move from being an active
nuclear weapons site into an active ref-
uge for wildlife and wild flowers in less
than two decades. An accomplishment
which no one thought was possible.
My vested interest in Rocky Flats
began during the 1980's when I was the
Chairman of the State Senate Com-
mittee on Health, Environment, Wel-
fare and Institutions. Although I sup-
ported the national security mission of
the Rocky Flats site prior to closure. I
believe that the Department of Energy
must also ensure the safety and health
of all Coloradans and the environment.
When the Rocky Flats site was shut
down in 1990, cleaning up and closing
down the site became one of my top
legislative priorities and will remain so
until this project is complete.
So where did the idea come from to
turn Rocky Flats, a former nuclear
weapons production facility, into a Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge?
My experience with wildlife refuge
designations began   with  Congress-
woman Schroeder at the Rocky Moun-
tain Arsenal in 1992. We worked on a
bill very similar to the one we are here
to discuss today, which designated the
Arsenal as a National Wildlife Refuge.
Given the success we experienced at
the Rocky Mountain Arsenal, I am con-
fident this is an appropriate designa-
tion for Rocky Flats.
Last year, I became the Strategic
Subcommittee Chairman of the Senate
Armed Services Committee, which has
direct oversight of former DoE weapons
facilities including Rocky Flats. This
is the first site in the DoE complex to
receive funding for cleanup and clo-
sure, and will therefore be a role model
for other sites in the complex. As
Chairman of the Subcommittee, I will
continue to work closely with my col-
leagues to educate them on the impor-
tance of cleaning up and closing down
Rocky Flats so it can be utilized as a
National Wildlife Refuge. This edu-
cation extends beyond the cleanup and

closure of Rocky Flats to the impor-
tance of cleaning up and closing of all
the former DoE weapons sites.
To this end, Congressman UDALL and
I have worked in a bipartisan manner,
with the Department of Energy, the
EPA, the State of Colorado, the local
governments and the Rocky      Flats
stakeholders to produce the proposed
Rocky Flats National Wildlife Refuge
Act. It has been hard work and with
many discussion drafts, but in the end
I believe we have produced a bill that
the communities surrounding Rocky
Flats can and will be proud of.
It is important to understand that
this legislation maintains that the
Rocky Flats site will remain in perma-
nent Federal ownership, and that the
administrative transfer of this site
from DoE to the Fish and Wildlife
Service will take place after the clean-
up and closure of the site is complete.
While cleanup is still our top priority,
determination of official closure is de-
termined by the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency's signing of the final
on-site record of decision. There are
many components of this bill which I
will summarize as follows:
The sponsors of the legislation recog-
nize the historic importance of the
Lindsay Ranch homestead facilities
and this legislation guarantees the
ranch's preservation.
Additionally, this bill ensures that
the site will remain a unified site,
therefore disallowing the annexation of
land to any local government, or for
the construction of through roads. The
only roads that may be constructed on
the site would be by the Fish and Wild-
life Service for the management of the
refuge.
Currently, there is a provision in this
legislation to allow the Secretary of
Energy and the Secretary of the Inte-
rior to authorize a transportation right
of-way on the eastern boundary of the
site for transportation improvements
along Indiana Street. We are aware of
the continued evaluation of this issue
and want this section of the bill to be
consistent with the needs of the State
of Colorado and the local governments.
With respect to the transfer of man-
agement responsibilities and jurisdic-
tion over Rocky Flats, this bill re-
quires the Department of Energy and
the Fish and Wildlife Service to pub-
lish in the Federal Register a Memo-
randum of Understanding one year
after the enactment of this Act. This
Memorandum of Understanding will ad-
dress administrative matters such as
the division of responsibilities between
the two agencies until the official
transfer of the site occurs. This legisla-
tion clearly states that no funding des-
ignated for cleanup and closure of the
site will be used for these activities.
It is important that the transfer of
the site from the Department of En-
ergy to the Fish and Wildlife Service
exclude any property that must be re-

tained by DoE for future onsite moni-
toring, as well as property which must
be retained for protection of human
health and safety.
The improvements necessary for the
site to be managed as a wildlife refuge
will be completed at no cost to the Sec-
retary of the Interior. Therefore, the
Secretary of Interior will need to iden-
tify appropriate improvement needs
and submit this request to the Sec-
retary of Energy in writing. This legis-
lation also clarifies that in the event of
future cleanup activities, this action
will take priority over wildlife man-
agement. These two agencies must con-
tinue to work with each other towards
their missions.
One of the most important directives
in this Act states that "nothing in this
Act affects the level of cleanup and clo-
sure at the Rocky Flats site required
under the Rocky Flats Cleanup Agree-
ment or any Federal or State law."
Through the ongoing discussions that
Congressman UDALL and I have had
with the Rocky Flats stakeholders we
believe it is important to reiterate that
this bill should not be used as a mecha-
nism to drive the level of cleanup. We
are confident that this language clari-
fies this issue. Our primary goal re-
mains and will continue to remain the
on-going cleanup and closure of Rocky
Flats. And, nothing in this bill affects
the on-going cleanup and closure ac-
tivities at the Rocky Flats.
Once the site is transferred to the
Fish and Wildlife Service, the refuge
will be managed in accordance with the
National Wildlife Refuge System Act
to preserve wildlife, enhance wildlife
habitat, conserve threatened and en-
dangered species, provide education op-
portunities and scientific research, as
well as recreation.
We recognize the importance of the
locally elected officials and stake-
holders in the effectiveness and success
of this bill. Therefore, we want to en-
sure their continued contribution at
Rocky Flats. Through this bill we di-
rect the Fish and Wildlife Service to
convene a public process to include
input on the management of the site.
The public process will provide a forum
for recommendations to be given to the
Fish and Wildlife Service on issues in-
cluding the site operations. transpor-
tation improvements, leasing land to
the National Renewable Energy Lab-
oratory, perimeter fences, the develop-
ment of a Rocky Flats museum and
visitors center. Upon the completion of
this report by the Fish and Wildlife
Service, a report will be submitted to
Congress to identify the recommenda-
tions resulting from the public process.
We have received a lot of input with
respect to private property rights. This
legislation recognizes and preserves
these property and access rights, which
include mineral rights, water and ease-
ment rights, and utility rights-of-ways.
This legislation does direct the Sec-
retary of Energy to seek to purchase

18931



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0930.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

September 21, 2000

mineral rights from willing sellers. For
management purposes, this Act pro-
vides the Secretary of Energy and the
Secretary of Interior the authority to
impose reasonable conditions on the
access to private property rights for
cleanup and refuge management pur-
poses.
Additionally, this bill provides the
Secretary of Energy with the authority
to allow Public Service Company of
Colorado to construct an extension
from an existing extension line on the
site.
As a tribute to the Cold War and
those who worked at Rocky Flats both
prior to and after the site closure. Con-
gressman UDALL and I, through this
legislation, authorize the establish-
ment of a Rocky Flats museum to com-
memorate the site. This bill requires
that the creation of the museum shall
be studied, and a report shall be sub-
mitted to Congress within three years
following the enactment of this act.
Lastly, this bill directs the Depart-
ment of Energy and the Fish and Wild-
life Service to inform Congress on the
costs associated with the implementa-
tion of this Act.
This process has moved forward suc-
cessfully thanks to the hard work of
the local governments and the Rocky
Flats stakeholders. I also want to
thank Representative UDALL for the bi-
partisan manner in which he and his
staff worked with me and my office.
Rocky Flats, like all other cleanup
sites. is bigger than partisan politics
and this effort proves it.
Once clean up and closure is accom-
plished in 2006, I look forward to re-
turning to Rocky Flats for the dedica-
tion of new Rocky Flats National Wild-
life Refuge.
I ask unanimous consent that the bill
be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection. the bill was
ordered to be printed in the RECORD as
follows:
S. 3090
Be it enacted by the Seenate and House o] Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the "Rocky Flats
National Wildlife Refuge Act of 2000".
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
(a) FINDING.-Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) The Federal Government, through the
Atomic Energy Commission, acquired the
Rocky Flats site in 1951 and began oper-
ations there In 1952. The site remains a De-
partment of Energy facility. Since 1992, the
mission of the Rocky Flats site has changed
from the production of nuclear weapons com-
ponents to cleanup and closure in a manner
that is safe, environmentally and socially re-
sponsible, physically secure, and cost-effec-
tive.
(2) The site has generally remained undis-
turbed since its acquisition by the Federal
Government.
(3) The State of Colorado is experiencing
increasing growth and development, espe-
cially in the metropolitan Denver Front

Range area In the vicinity of the Rocky
Flats site. That growth and development re-
duces the amount of open space and thereby
diminishes for many metropolitan Denver
communities the vistas of the striking Front
Range mountain backdrop.
(4) Some areas of the site contain coitami-
nation and will require further remediation.
The national interest requires that the ongo-
ing cleanup and closure of the entire site be
completed safely, effectively, and without
unnecessary delay and that the site there-
after be retained by the United States and
managed so as to preserve the value of the
site for open space and wildlife habitat.
(5) The Rocky Flats site provides habitat
for many wildlife species, including a num-
ber of threatened and endangered species,
and is marked by the presence of rare xeric
tallgrass prairie plant communities. Estab-
lishing the site as a unit of the National
Wildlife Refuge System will promote the
preservation and enhancement of those re-
sources for present and future generations.
(b) PURPOSE.-The purpose of this Act is to
provide for the establishment of the Rocky
Flats site as a national wildlife refuge while
creating a process for public input on refuge
management and ensuring that the site is
thoroughly and completely cleaned up.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) CLEANUP AND    CLOSURE.-The term
-cleanup and closure" means the remedial
actions  and  decommissioning  activities
being carried out at Rocky Flats by the De-
partment of Energy under the 1996 Rocky
Fiats Cleanup Agreement, the closure plans
and baselines, and any other relevant docu-
ments or requirements.
(2) COAIATION.- The  term   "Coalition"
means the Rocky Flats Coalition of Local
Governments established by the Intergovern-
mental Agreement, dated February 16, 1999,
among-
(A) the city of Arvada. Colorado:
(B) the city of Boulder, Colorado;
(C) the city of Broomfield, Colorado;
(D) the city of Westminster. Colorado;
(El the town of Superior, Colorado:
(F) Boulder County, Colorado; and
(G) Jefferson County, Colorado.
(3) HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE.-The term "'haz-
ardous substance" has the meaning given the
term in section 101 of the Comprehensive En-
vironmental Response. Compensation, and
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601).
(4) POIUTANT OR CONTAMINANT.-The term
"pollutant or contaminant" has the meaning
given the term in section 101 of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9601).
(5) REFUGE.-The term "refuge" means the
Rocky Flats National Wildlife Refuge estab-
lished under section 7.
(6) RESPONSE ACTION.-The term "response
action" has the meaning given the term "re-
sponse' in section 101 of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601) or any
similar requirement under State law.
(7) RFCA.-The term "RFCA" means the
Rocky Flats Cleanup Agreement, an inter-
governmental agreement, dated July 19, 1996,
among-
(A) the Department of Energy:
(B) the Environmental Protection Agency;
and
(C) the Department of Public Health and
Environment of the State of Colorado.
(8) ROCKY FLATS.-The term *'Rocky Flats"
means the Rocky Flats Environmental Tech-
nology Site, Colorado, a defense nuclear fa-

cllity, as depicted on the map entitled
"Rocky Flats Environmental Technology
Site", dated July 15. 1998.
(9) ROCKY FLATS TRUSTEES. The term
"Rocky Flats Trustees" means the Federal
and State of Colorado entities that have
been identified as trustees for Rocky Flats
under section 107(f)(2) of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation. and
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9607(f)(2)).
(10) SECRETARY.-The term    "Secretary"
means the Secretary of Energy.
SEC. 4. FUTURE OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT.
(a) FEDERAL OWNERSHIP.-Unless Congress
provides otherwise in an Act enacted after
the (late of enactment of this Act, all right,
title, and interest of the United States, held
on or acquired after the date of enactment of
this Act, to land within the boundaries of
Rocky Flats shall be retained by the United
States.
(b) LINDSAY RANCH.-The structures that
comprise the former Lindsay Ranch home-
stead site in the Rock Creek Reserve area of
the buffer zone, as depicted on the map re-
ferred to in section 3(8). shall be perma-
nently preserved and maintained In accord-
ance with the National Historic Preservation
Act (16 U.S C. 470 et seq.).
(C) PROHIBITION ON ANNEXATION.-The Sec-
retary of the Interior shall not allow the an-
nexation of land within the refuge by any
unit of local government.
(d) PROHIBITION ON THROUGH ROADS.-EX-
cept as provided in subsection (e), no public
road shall be constructed through Rocky
Flats.
(e) TRANSPORTATION RIGHT-OF-WAY.-
(1) IN GENERAL.-
(A) AVAILABILITY OF LAND.-On submission
of an application meeting each of the condi-
tions specified In paragraph (2), the Sec-
retary and the Secretary of the Interior may
make available land along the eastern
boundary of Rocky Flats for the sole purpose
of transportation improvements along Indi-
ana Street.
(B) BOUNDARIES.-Land made available
under this paragraph may not extend more
than 150 feet irom the west edge of the Indi-
ana Street right-ol-way, as that right-of-way
exists as of the date of enactment of this
Act.
(C) EASEMENT OR SALE.-Land may be made
available under this paragraph by easement
or sale to 1 or more appropriate entities.
(D) COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW.-
Any action under this paragraph shall be
taken in compliance with applicable law.
(2) COND1TIONS.-An application for land
under this subsection may be submitted by
any county, city, or other political subdivi-
sion of the State of Colorado and shall in-
clude documentation demonstrating that-
(A) the transportatmon project is compat-
ible with the management of Rocky Flats as
a wildlife refuge: and
(B) the transportation project is included
in the Regional Transportation Plan of the
Metropolitan Planning Organization des-
ignated for the Denver metropolitan area
under section 5303 of title 49, United States
Code.
SEC. 5. TRANSFER OF MANAGEMENT RESPON.
SIBILITIES AND JURISDICTION OVER
ROCKY FLATS.
(a) IN GENERAL.-
(1) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.-
(A) IN GENERAL-Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior
shall publish in the Federal Register a draft
memorandum of understanding under which
the Secretary shall transfer to the Secretary

18932



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0931.txt

September 21, 2000                     C
of the Interior administrative jurisdiction
over Rocky Flats.
(B) REQUIRED ELEMENTS.-
(1) IN oENERAL.-Subject to clause (i), the
memorandum of understanding shall-
(I) provide for the timing of the transfer;
(I) provide for the division of responsibil-
ities between the Secretary and the Sec-
retary of the Interior for the period ending
on the date of the transfer; and
(III) provide an appropriate allocation of
costs and personnel to the Secretary of the
Interior.
(ii) NO REDUCTION IN FUNDS.-The memo-
randum of understanding shall not result in
any reduction in funds available to the Sec-
retary for cleanup and closure of Rocky
Flats.
(C) DEADLINE.-Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary and Secretary of the Interior shall
finalize and implement the memorandum of
understanding.
(2) ExCLUSIONs.-The transfer under para-
graph (1) shall not include the transfer of
any property or facility over which the Sec-
retary retains jurisdiction, authority, and
control under subsection (b)(l).
(3) CONDITION.-The transfer under para-
graph (1) shall occur not later than 10 busi-
ness days after the signing by the Regional
Administrator for Region VIII of the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency of the Final
On-site Record of Decision for Rocky Flats.
(4) COST; IMPROVEMENTS.-The transfer-
(A) shall be completed without cost to the
Secretary of the Interior; and
(B) may include such buildings or other
improvements as the Secretary of the Inte-
rior may request in writing for refuge man-
agement purposes.
(b) PROPERTY AND FACILITIES EXCLUDED
FROM TRANSFERS.-
(1) IN GENERAL.-The Secretary shall retain
jurisdiction, authority, and control over all
real property and facilities at Rocky Flats
that are to be used for-
(A) any necessary and appropriate long-
term operation and maintenance facility to
intercept, treat, or control a hazardous sub-
stance, radionuclide, or other pollutant or
contaminant; and
(B) any other purpose relating to a re-
sponse action or any other action that is re-
quired to be carried out at Rocky Flats.
(2) CONSULTATION.-
(A) WITH ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGEN-
CY AND STATE.-The Secretary shall consult
with the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency and the State of
Colorado on the identification and manage-
ment of all property to be retained under
this subsection to ensure the continuing ef-
fectiveness of response actions.
(B) WITH SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.-
(i) IN GENERAL.-The Secretary shall con-
sult with the Secretary of the Interior on the
management of the retained property to
minimize any conflict between the manage-
ment of property transferred to the Sec-
retary of the Interior and property retained
by the Secretary for response actions.
(ii) CONFLICT.-In the case of any such con-
flict, implementation and maintenance of
the response action shall take priority.
(3) ACCESS.-As a condition of the transfer
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall be
provided such easements and access as are
reasonably required to carry out any obliga-
tion or address any liability.
(c) ADMINISTRATION.-
(1) IN GENERAL.-On completion of the
transfer under subsection (a), the Secretary
of the Interior shall administer Rocky Flats
in accordance with this Act subject to-

ONGRESSIONAL RECORD-S)ENATE

(A) any response action or institutional
control at Rocky Flats carried out by or
under the authority of the Secretary under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9601 et seq.); and
(B) any other action required under any
other Federal or State law to be carried out
by or under the authority of the Secretary.
(2) CONFLICT.-In the case of any conflict
between the management of Rocky Flats by
the Secretary of the Interior and the conduct
of any response action or other action de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) or (B) of para-
graph (1), the response action or other action
shall take priority.
(3) CONTINUING ACTIONs.-Except as pro-
vided In paragraph (1), nothing in this sub-
section affects any response action or other
action initiated at Rocky Flats on or before
the date of the transfer under subsection (a).
(4) LIABILITY.-The Secretary shall retain
any obligation or other liability for land
transferred under subsection (a) under-
(A) the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.); or
(B) any other applicable law.
SEC. 6. CONTINUATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL
CLEANUP AND CLOSURE.
(a) ONGOING CLEANUP AND CLOSURE.-
(1) IN GENERAl.The Secretary shall carry
out to completion cleanup and closure at
Rocky Flats.
(2) NO RESTRICTION ON USE OF NEW TECH-
NOIOGIES.-Nothing in this Act, and no ac-
tion taken under this Act, restricts the Sec-
retary from using at Rocky Flats any new
technology that may become available for
remediation of contamination.
(b) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.-
() NO RELIEF FROM OBLIGATIONS UNDER
OTHER LAW.-
(A) IN GENERAL.-Nothing in this Act, and
no action taken under this Act, relieves the
Secretary, the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency, or any other per-
son from any obligation or other liability
with respect to Rocky Flats under the RFCA
or any applicable Federal or State law.
(B) NO EFFECT ON RFCA.-Nothing in this
Act impairs or alters any provision of the
RFCA.
(2) REQUIRED CLEANUP LEVELS.-
(A) IN GENERAL.-Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), nothing in this Act affects
the level of cleanup and closure at Rocky
Fiats required under the RFCA or any Fed-
eral or State law.
(B) No EFFECT FROM ESTABLISHMENT AS NA-
TIONAL, WILDLIFE REFUGE.-
(I) IN GENERAL.-The requirements of this
Act for establishment and management of
Rocky Flats as a national wildlife refuge
shall not affect the level of cleanup and clo-
sure.
(ii) CLEANUP LEVELS.-The Secretary is re-
quired to conduct cleanup and closure of
Rocky Flats to the levels hereafter estab-
lished for soil, water, and other media, fol-
lowing a thorough review, by the parties to
the RFCA and the public, of the appropriate-
ness of the interim levels in the RFCA.
(3) NO EFFECT ON OBLIGATIONS FOR MEAS-
URES TO CONTROL CONTAMINATION.-Nothing
In this Act, and no action taken under this
Act, affects any long-term obligation of the
United States relating to funding, construc-
tion, monitoring, or operation and mainte-
nance of-
(A) any necessary intercept or treatment
facility; or
(B) any other measure to control contami-
nation.

18933

(c) PAYMENT OF RESPONSE ACTION COSTS.-
Nothing in this Act affects the obligation of
a Federal department or agency that had or
has operations at Rocky Fiats resulting in
the release or threatened release of a haz-
ardous substance or pollutant or contami-
nant to pay the costs of response actions car-
ried out to abate the release of, or clean up,
the hazardous substance or pollutant or con-
taminant.
(d) CONSULTATION.-In carrying out a re-
sponse action at Rocky Flats, the Secretary
shall consult with the Secretary of the Inte-
rior to ensure that the response action is
carried out in a manner that, to the max-
imum extent practicable, furthers the pur-
poses of the refuge.
SEC. 7. ROCKY FLATS NATIONAL WILDLIFE REF-
UGE.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.-Not later than 30 days
after the transfer of jurisdiction under sec-
tion 5(a)(3), the Secretary of the Interior
shall establish at Rocky Flats a national
wildlife refuge to be known as the "Rocky
Flats National Wildlife Refuge".
(b) CoMPoSITION.-The refuge shall consist
of the real property subject to the transfer of
jurisdiction under section 5(a)(1).
(c) NOTICE.-The Secretary of the Interior
shall publish in the Federal Register a notice
of the establishment of the refuge.
(d) ADMINISTRATION AND PURPOSES.-
(1) IN GENERAL-The Secretary of the Inte-
rior shall manage the refuge in accordance
with applicable law, including this Act, the
National Wildlife Refuge System Adminis-
tration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd et seq.),
and the purposes specified in that Act.
(2) SPECIFIC MANAGEMENT PURPOSES.-To
the extent consistent with applicable law,
the refuge shall be managed for the purposes
of-
(A) restoring and preserving native eco-
systems:
(B) providing habitat for, and population
management of, native plants and migratory
and resident wildlife;
(C) conserving threatened and endangered
species (including species that are can-
didates for listing under the Endangered Spe-
cies Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.));
(D) providing opportunities for compatible
environmental scientific research; and
(E) providing the public with opportunities
for compatible outdoor recreational and edu-
cational activities.
SEC. 8. PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCESS.-Not later
than 90 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, in developing plans for the manage-
ment of fish and wildlife and public use of
the refuge, the Secretary of the Interior, in
consultation with the Secretary, the mem-
bers of the Coalition, the Governor of the
State of Colorado, and the Rocky Flats
Trustees, shall establish a process for in-
volvement of the public and local commu-
nities in accomplishing the purposes and ob-
jectives of this section.
(b) OTHER PARTICIPANTS.-In addition to
the entities specified in subsection (a), the
public involvement process shall include the
opportunity for direct involvement of enti-
ties not members of the Coalition as of the
date of enactment of this Act, including the
Rocky Flats Citizens' Advisory Board and
the cities of Thornton, Northglenn, Golden,
Louisville, and Lafayette, Colorado.
(c) DISSOLUTION OF COALITION.-If the Coa-
lition dissolves, or if any Coalition member
elects to leave the Coalition during the pub-
lic involvement process under this section-
(1) the public involvement process under
this section shall continue; and



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0932.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE

September 21, 2000

(2) an opportunity shall be provided to
each entity that is a member of the Coali-
tion as of September 1, 2000, for direct in-
volvement in the public involvement proc-
ess.
(d) PURPOSES.-The public involvement
process under this section shall provide
input and make recommendations to the
Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior
on the following:
(1) The long-term management of the ref-
uge consistent with the purposes of the ref-
uge described in section 7(d) and in the Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge System Administra-
tion Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd et seq.).
(2) The identification of any land described
in section 4(e) that could be made available
for transportation purposes.
(3) The potential for leasing any land in
Rocky Flats for the National Renewable En-
ergy Laboratory to carry out projects relat-
ing to the National Wind Technology Center.
(4) The characteristics and configuration of
any perimeter fencing that may be appro-
priate or compatible for cleanup and closure,
refuge, or other purposes.
(5) The feasibility of locating, and the po-
tential location for. a visitor and education
center at the refuge.
(6) The establishment of a Rocky Flats mu-
seum described in section 10.
(7) Any other issues relating to Rocky
Flats.
(e) REPORT.-Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of this Act. the Sec-
retary of the Interior shall submit to the
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate
and the appropriate committee of the House
of Representatives a report that-
(1) outlines  the  conclusions  reached
through the public involvement process: and
(2) to the extent that any input or rec-
ommendation from the public involvement
process is not accepted, clearly states the
reasons why the input or recommendation is
not accepted.
SEC. 9. PROPERTY RIGHTS.
(a) IN GENERAL-Except as provided in
subsection (c), nothing in this Act limits any
valid, existing property right at Rocky Flats
that is owned by any person or entity, in-
cluding, but not limited to-
(1) any mineral right;
(2) any water right or related easement:
and
(3) any facility or right-of-way for a util-
ity.
(b) ACCESS.-Except as provided in sub-
section (c), nothing in this Act affects any
right of an owner of a property right de-
scribed in subsection (a) to access the own-
