a full-fledged State through the assistance
he provided in building energy facilities, hos-
pitals and clinics, roads, docks, airports,
water and sewer facilities, schools, and other
community facilities in the State of Alaska,
which earned him recognition as "Alaskan of
the Century" from the Alaska Legislature in
2000;
(2) Ted Stevens distinguished himself as a
transport pilot during World War II in sup-
port of the "Flying Tigers" of the United
States Army Air Corps, 14th Air Force, earn-
ing 2 Distinguished Flying Crosses and other
decorations for his skill and bravery;
(3) Ted Stevens, after serving as a United
States Attorney in the territory of Alaska,
came to Washington, District of Columbia in
1956 to serve in the Eisenhower Administra-
tion in the Department of the Interior,
where he was a leading force in securing the
legislation that led to the admission of Alas-
ka as the 49th State on January 3, 1959, and
then as Solicitor of the Department of the
Interior;
(4) in 1961, Ted Stevens returned to the
State of Alaska and, in 1964, was elected to
the Alaska House of Representatives, where
he was subsequently elected as Speaker pro
tempore and majority leader until his ap-
pointment on December 24, 1968, to the Sen-
ate to fill the vacancy caused by the death of
Senator E.L. Bartlett;
(5) Ted Stevens, the longest-serving Repub-
lican Senator in the history of the Senate,
served as President pro tempore of the Sen-
ate from 2003 through 2007 and as President
pro tempore emeritus from 2008 to 2009, and
over the course of his career in the Senate,
Ted Stevens served as assistant Republican
leader, Chairman of the Select Committee on
Ethics, Chairman of the Committee on Rules
and Administration, Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Governmental Affairs, Chairman
of the Committee on Appropriations, and
Chairman of the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation;
(6) Ted Stevens worked tirelessly for the
enactment of the Alaska Native Claims Set-
tlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), which
provided for the conveyance of approxi-
mately 44,000,000 acres of land in the State of
Alaska to the Aleut, Eskimo, and Indian peo-
ples and created Native Corporations to se-
cure the long-term economic, cultural, and
political empowerment of the Native peoples
of the State of Alaska;
(7) Ted Stevens was a leader in shaping the
communications    policies  of the  United
States, as he helped to establish the spec-
trum auction policy, negotiated the Tele-
communications Act of 1996, authored the
Digital Television Transition and Public
Safety Act of 2005 (47 U.S.C. 309 note; Public
Law 109-171), and passionately advocated for
the connection of rural America to the rest
of the world and to improve the lives of the
people of the United States through the use
of telemedicine and distance learning;
(8) Ted Stevens was a conservationist who
championed the safe development of the nat-
ural resources of the United States, as illus-
trated by his authorship of the Trans-Alaska
Pipeline Authorization Act (43 U.S.C. 1651 et
seq.), the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Con-
servation and Management Act (16 U.S.C.
1801 et seq.), which established the 200-mile

16626



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0345.txt

September 27, 2010

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE, Vol. 156, Pt. 12

exclusive economic zone and led to a reduc-
tion in the dominance of foreign fishing
fleets in the fisheries of the United States,
the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation
and Management Reauthorization Act of 2006
(Public Law 109-479; 120 Stat. 3575), which es-
tablished conservation measures designed to
end overfishing, and the High Seas Driftnet
Fisheries Enforcement Act (16 U.S.C. 1826a et
seq.), which provided for the denial of entry
into ports of the United States and the impo-
sition of sanctions on vessels carrying out
large-scale driftnet fishing beyond the exclu-
sive economic zone of any nation;
(9) Ted Stevens was committed to health
and fitness in his personal life and in his leg-
islative accomplishments, as illustrated by
his authorship of the Ted Stevens Amateur
and Olympic Sports Act (36 U.S.C. 220501 et
seq.), his encouragement of providing equal-
ity to female athletes through the enact-
ment of title IX of the Education Amend-
ments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.), and his
leadership in improving physical education
programs in schools through the Carol M.
White  Physical Education    Program  (20
U.S.C. 7261 et seq.);
(10) Ted Stevens unconditionally supported
the needs of the Armed Forces of the United
States through visits to soldiers, sailors, air-
men, marines, and Coast Guardsmen in every
major military conflict and war zone where
United States military personnel have been
assigned during his service in the Senate, in-
cluding Vietnam, Kuwait, Bosnia, Kosovo,
Iraq, and Afghanistan, and in his role as
Chairman and Ranking Member of the Sub-
committee on Defense Appropriations for
more than 20 years;
(11) Ted Stevens was a devoted husband, fa-
ther, and grandfather who worked to pro-
mote family-friendly policies in the Federal
government;
(12) Ted Stevens was well-respected for
reaching across the aisle to forge bipartisan
alliances and enjoyed many close friendships
with colleagues in both political parties and
with his staff, who were deeply loyal to him;
and
(13) the designation of the unnamed high-
est peak in the State of Alaska, along with
an icefield in the Chugach National Forest in
that State, in honor of Ted Stevens would be
a fitting tribute to his honorable life and leg-
acy.
SEC. 3. DESIGNATION OF MOUNT STEVENS.
(a) DESIGNATION.-Not later than 30 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
United States Board on Geographic Names
(referred to in this Act as the "Board") shall
designate the unnamed, 13,895-foot peak in
the Alaska Range in Denali National Park
and Preserve in the State of Alaska, located
at  latitude  62.920469308  and  longitude
-151.066510314, as the "Mount Stevens".
(b) REFERENCES.-Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the peak re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to
be a reference to the "Mount Stevens".
SEC. 4. DESIGNATION    OF   TED  STEVENS
ICEFIELD.
(a) DEFINITION OF ICEFIELD.-In this sec-
tion, the term "icefield" means the icefield
in the northern Chugach National Forest in
the State of Alaska-
(1) comprising approximately 8,340 square
miles, as delineated by the map entitled "Ice
Field Name Proposal in Honor of Stevens"
dated September 24, 2010, as prepared by the
Forest Service and available for inspection
at Forest Service headquarters in Wash-
ington, District of Columbia; and

(2) including the Harvard, Yale, Columbia,
Nelchina, Tazlina, Valdez, and Shoup Gla-
ciers.
(b) DESIGNATION.-Not later than 30 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Board shall designate the icefield as the
"Ted Stevens Icefield".
(c) REFERENCES.-Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the icefield
shall be deemed to be a reference to the "Ted
Stevens Icefield".
NOTICE OF MEETING
COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I wish
to announce that the Committee on
Rules and Administration will meet on
Wednesday, September 29, 2010, at 10
a.m., to hear testimony on "Examining
the Filibuster: Ideas to Reduce Delay
and Encourage Debate in the Senate."
For further information regarding
this meeting, please contact Lynden
Armstrong at the Rules and Adminis-
tration Committee on (202) 224-6352.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. REID. Mr. President, on behalf of
Senator MAX BAUCUS of Montana, I ask
unanimous consent that Mary Baker
and John Merrick, members of his
staff, be permitted the privilege of the
floor during consideration of S. 3816
and any votes thereon.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. KAUFMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Jeffrey Colvin,
a legislative fellow in my office, be
granted the privilege of the floor for
the remainder of the Congress.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tern-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
REDUCING OVER-CLASSIFICATION
ACT
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to Calendar No. 413, H.R. 553.
The   PRESIDING     OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The assistant legislative clerk read
as follows:
A bill (H.R. 553) to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to develop a strategy to
prevent the over-classification of homeland
security and other information and to pro-
mote the sharing of unclassified homeland
security and other information, and for
other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill which
had been reported from the Committee
on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs with an amendment to
strike all after the enacting clause and
insert in lieu thereof the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the "Reducing Over-
Classification Act".

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The National Commission on Terrorist At-
tacks Upon the United States (commonly known
as the "9/11 Commission") concluded that there
is a need to prevent over-classification of infor-
mation by the Federal Government.
(2) The 9/11 Commission and others have ob-
served that the over-classification of informa-
tion interferes with accurate, actionable, and
timely information sharing, increases the cost of
information security, and needlessly limits pub-
lic access to information.
(3) Over-classification of information causes
considerable confusion about what information
may be shared with whom, and negatively af-
fects the dissemination of information within
the Federal Government and with State, local,
and tribal entities, and the private sector.
(4) Excessive government secrecy stands in the
way of a safer and more secure homeland. Over-
classification of information is antithetical to
the creation and operation of the information
sharing environment established under 1016 of
the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Preven-
tion Act of2004 (6 U.S.C. 485).
(5) Federal departments or agencies author-
ized to make original classification decisions or
that perform derivative classification of infor-
mation are responsible for developing, imple-
menting, and administering policies, procedures,
and programs that promote compliance with ap-
plicable laws, executive orders, and other au-
thorities pertaining to the proper use of classi-
fication markings and the policies of the Na-
tional Archives and Records Administration.
SEC. 3. CLASSIFIED INFORMATION ADVISORY OF-
FICER.
(a) IN GENERAL.-Subsection (d) of section 201
of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
121) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
"(26)  To  identify  and  designate, acting
through the Under Secretary for Intelligence
and Analysis, a Classified Information Advisory
Officer to assist State, local, tribal, and private
sector entities that have responsibility for the
security of critical infrastructure, in matters re-
lated to classified materials, as described in sec-
tion 210F. ".
(b) ESTABLISHMENT AND RESPONSIBILITIES.-
(/) IN GENEAL.-Subtitle A of title I of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121 et
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
"SEC. 21OF. CLASSIFIED INFORMATION ADVISORY
OFFICER.
"(a) REQUIREMENT To ESTABLISH.-The Sec-
retary, acting through the Under Secretary for
Intelligence and Analysis, shall identify and
designate within the Department a Classified
Information Advisory Officer, as described in
this section.
"(b) RESPONSIBILITIES.-The responsibilities of
the Classified  Information  Advisory  Officer
shall be as follows:
"(1) To develop and disseminate educational
materials and to develop and administer train-
ing programs to assist State, local, tribal, and
private sector entities with responsibility related
to the security of critical infrastructure-
"(A) in developing plans and policies to re-
spond to requests related to classified informa-
tion without communicating such information to
individuals who lack appropriate security clear-
ances;
"(B) regarding the appropriate procedures for
challenging classification designations of infor-
mation received by personnel of such entities;
and
"(C) on the means by which such personnel
may apply for security clearances.
"(2) To inform the Under Secretary for Intel-
ligence and Analysis on policies and procedures

16627



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0346.txt

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE, Vol. 156, Pt. 12

September 27, 2010

that could facilitate the sharing of classified in-
formation  with  such  personnel, as appro-
priate. ".
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.-The table of con-
tents in section l(b) of the Homeland Security
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101 et seq.) is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section 210E
the following:
"Sec. 210F. Classified Information Advisory Of-
ficer. ".
SEC. 4. PROMOTION OF APPROPRIATE ACCESS TO
INFORMATION.
Subsection (b) of section 102A of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 403-1) is amend-
ed-
(1) by inserting "(1)" before "Unless"; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
"(2) The Director of National Intelligence
shall-
"(A) consistent with paragraph (1), have ac-
cess to all intelligence information, including in-
telligence reports, operational data, and other
associated information, produced by any ele-
ment of the intelligence community; and
"(B) consistent with the protection of intel-
ligence sources and methods, as determined by
the Director-
"(i) ensure maximum access to the intelligence
information referenced in subparagraph (A) for
an employee of a department, agency, or other
entity of the Federal Government or of a State,
local, or tribal government who has an appro-
priate security clearance; and
"(ii) provide a mechanism within the Office of
the Director of National Intelligence for the Di-
rector to direct access to the information ref-
erenced in subparagraph (A) for an employee re-
ferred to in clause (i). ".
SEC. 5. INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION SHARING.
(a) DEVELOPMENT OF GUIDANCE FOR INTEL-
LIGENCE PRODUCTS.-Paragraph (1) of section
102A(g) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 403-1(g)) is amended-
(1) in subparagraph (E), by striking "and" at
the end;
(2) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period
at the end and inserting a semicolon and
"'and"; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
"(G) in accordance with Executive Order No.
12958, as amended by Executive Order No. 13292
(68 Fed. Reg. 15315; relating to classification of
national security information) (or any subse-
quent corresponding executive order), and parts
2001 and 2004 of title 32, Code of Federal Regu-
lations (or any subsequent corresponding regu-
lation), establish-
"(i) guidance to standardize, in appropriate
cases, the formats for classified and unclassified
intelligence products created by elements of the
intelligence community for purposes of pro-
moting the sharing of intelligence products; and
"(ii) policies and procedures requiring the in-
creased use, in appropriate cases, and including
portion markings, of the classification of por-
tions of information within one intelligence
product. ".
(b) CREATION OF UNCLASSIFIED INTELLIGENCE
PRODUCTS AS APPROPRIATE FOR STATE, LOCAL,
TRIBAL, AND PRIVATE SECTOR STAKEHOLDERS.-
Subsection (g) of section 102A of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 403-1) is amend-
ed-
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as
paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing:
"(3)(A) If the head of a Federal department or
agency determines that an intelligence product
which includes homeland security information,
as defined in section 892(f) of the Homeland Se-
curity Information Sharing Act (6 U.S.C. 482(f)),
or terrorism information, as defined in section

1016(a) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism
Prevention Act of 2004 (6 U.S.C. 485(a)), could
likely benefit a State, local, or tribal govern-
ment, a law enforcement agency, or a private
sector entity with responsibility for the security
of critical infrastructure, such head shall share
that intelligence product with the Interagency
Threat Assessment and Coordination Group es-
tablished in section 210D(a) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 124k(a)).
"(B) If the Interagency Threat Assessment
and Coordination Group determines that an in-
telligence product referred to in subparagraph
(A), or any other intelligence product that such
Group has access to, could likely benefit a State,
local, or tribal government, a law enforcement
agency, or a private sector entity, the Group
shall recommend to the Under Secretary for In-
telligence and Analysis of the Department of
Homeland Security that the Under Secretary
produce an intelligence product that is unclassi-
fied or that is classified at the lowest possible
level-
"(i) based on the intelligence product referred
to in subparagraph (A), in a manner consistent
with the guidance established under paragraph
(1)(G)(i); and
"(ii) provide such product to the appropriate
entity or agency.
"(C)(i) The Secretary of Homeland Security
shall submit to the congressional intelligence
committees, the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs of the Senate,
and the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives an annual report on
activities carried out under this paragraph.
Each such report shall include a description
of-
"(I) each recommendation made to the Under
Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis under
subparagraph (B);
"(II) each such recommendation that was car-
ried out by the Under Secretary; and
"(III) each such recommendation that was not
carried out by the Under Secretary.
"(ii) The initial report required under clause
(i) shall be submitted not later than 270 days
after the date of the enactment of the Reducing
Over-Classification Act and no reports shall be
required under clause (i) after December 31,
2014. ".
(C) INTERAGENCY THREAT ASSESSMENT AND CO-
ORDINATION GROUP ANNUAL REPORT MODIFICA-
TION.-Subsection (c) of section 210D of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 124k) is
amended-
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking "and" at the
end;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at
the end and inserting a semicolon and "and";
and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
"(3) in each report required by paragraph (2)
submitted after the date of the enactment of the
Reducing Over-Classification Act, include a de-
scription of the progress made by the head of
each Federal department and agency to share
information with the ITACG pursuant to section
102A(g)(3)(A) of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 403-1(g)(3)(A)). ".
SEC. 6. PROMOTION OF ACCURATE CLASSIFICA-
TION OF INFORMATION.
(a) DERIVATIVE CLASSIFICATION AND ORIGINAL
CLASSIFICATION DEFINED.-In this section, the
terms "derivative classification" and "original
classification" have the meaning given those
terms in Executive Order No. 12958, as amended
by Executive Order No. 13292 (68 Fed. Reg.
15315; relating to classification of national secu-
rity information) (or any    subsequent cor-
responding executive order).
(b) INCENTIVES FOR ACCURATE CLASSIFICA-
TIONS.-The head of each department or agency
of the United States with an officer or employee

who is authorized to make original classification
decisions or derivative classification decisions
shall consider such officer's or employee's con-
sistent and proper classification of information
in determining whether to award any personnel
incentive to the officer or employee.
(c) INSPECTOR GENERAL EVALUATIONS.-
(1) REQUIREMENT FOR EVALUATIONS.-Not less
frequently than once each year until December
31, 2014, the inspector general of each depart-
ment or agency of the United States with an of-
ficer or employee who is authorized to make
original classifications shall carry out an eval-
uation of that department or agency or a com-
ponent of the department or agency-
(A) to assess whether applicable classification
policies, procedures, rules, and regulations have
been adopted, followed, and effectively adminis-
tered within such department, agency, or com-
ponent; and
(B) to identify policies, procedures, rules, reg-
ulations, or management practices that may be
contributing to persistent misclassification of
material within such department, agency or
component.
(2) REPORTS.-
(A) REQUIREMENT.-Each inspector general
who is required to carry out an evaluation
under paragraph (1) shall submit to the appro-
priate entities a report on each such evaluation.
(B) CONTENT.-Each report submitted under
subparagraph (A) shall include a description
of-
(i) the policies, procedures, rules, regulations,
or management practices, if any, identified by
the inspector general under paragraph (1)(B);
and
(ii) the recommendations, if any, of the in-
spector general to address any such identified
policies, procedures, rules, regulations, or man-
agement practices.
(C) COORDINATION.-The inspectors general
who are required to carry out evaluations under
paragraph (1) shall coordinate with each other
to ensure that evaluations follow a consistent
methodology, as appropriate, that allows for
cross-agency comparisons.
(3) APPROPRIATE ENTITIES DEFINED.-In this
paragraph, the term    "appropriate entities"
means-
(A) the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs and the Select Committee
on Intelligence of the Senate;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security, the
Committee on Oversight and Government Re-
form, and the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence of the House of Representatives;
(C) any other committee of Congress with ju-
risdiction over a department or agency referred
to in paragraph (1);
(D) the head of a department or agency re-
ferred to in paragraph (1); and
(E) the Director of the Information Security
Oversight Office.
SEC. 7. CLASSIFICATION TRAINING PROGRAM.
(a) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY DEFINED.-In
this section, the term "intelligence community"
has the meaning given that term in section 3(4)
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
401a(4)).
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR PROGRAM.-
(1) IN GENERAL-The Director of National In-
telligence, in accordance with Executive Order
No. 12958, as amended by Executive Order No.
13292 (68 Fed. Reg. 15315; relating to classifica-
tion of national security information) (or any
subsequent corresponding executive order), shall
require annual training for each employee of an
element of the intelligence community and ap-
propriate personnel of each contractor to an ele-
ment of the intelligence community who has
original classification authority, performs deriv-
ative classification, or is responsible for anal-
ysis, dissemination, preparation, production, re-
ceiving, publishing, or otherwise communicating

16628



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0347.txt

September 27, 2010            CONGRE
written classified information that includes
training-
(A) to educate the employee and contractor
personnel regarding-
(i) the guidance established under subpara-
graph (G)(i) of section 102A(g)(1) of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 403-
l(g)(1)), as added by section 5(a)(3), regarding
the formatting of finished intelligence products;
(ii) the proper use of classification markings,
including portion markings that indicate the
classification of portions of information within
one intelligence product: and
(iii) any incentives and penalties related to
the proper classification of intelligence informa-
tion; and
(B) that is one of the prerequisites, once com-
pleted successfully, as evidenced by an appro-
priate certificate or other record, for-
(i) obtaining original classification authority
or derivatively classifying information; and
(ii) maintaining such authority.
(2) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER PROGRAMS.-The
Director of National Intelligence shall ensure
that the training required by paragraph (1) is
conducted efficiently and in conjunction with
any other security, intelligence, or other train-
ing programs required by elements of the intel-
ligence community to reduce the costs and ad-
ministrative burdens associated with carrying
out the training required by paragraph (1).
Mr. DURBIN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the committee-reported sub-
stitute be considered; a     Lieberman
amendment, which is at the desk, be
agreed to; the committee-reported sub-
stitute amendment, as amended, be
agreed to; the bill, as amended, be read
a third time and passed; the motions to
reconsider be laid upon the table with-
out intervening action or debate; and
any statements relating to the bill be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 4661) was agreed
to.
(The amendment is printed in today's
RECORD under "Text of Amendments.")
The committee amendment in the
nature of a substitute, as amended, was
agreed to.
The amendment was ordered to be
engrossed and the bill to be read a
third time.
The bill (H.R. 553), as amended, was
read the third time and passed.
PLAIN WRITING ACT OF 2010
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 321, H.R. 946.
The   PRESIDING      OFFICER.     The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 946) to enhance citizen access
to Government information and services by
establishing that Government documents
issued to the public must be written clearly,
and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CASEY. I ask unanimous consent
that an Akaka amendment, which is at
the desk, be agreed to; the bill, as
amended, be read a third time and

SSIONAL RECORD-SENATE, Vol. 156, Pt. 12

passed; the motion to reconsider be
laid upon the table with no intervening
action or debate; and any statements
related to the bill be printed in the
RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 4663) was agreed
to, as follows:
(Purpose: To modify the definition of plain
writing, and for other purposes)
On page 2, line 9, strike "relevant to" and
insert "necessary for".
On page 2, strike lines 21 through 25 and in-
sert the following:
(3) PLAIN WRITING.-The term "plain writ-
ing" means writing that is clear, concise,
well-organized, and follows other best prac-
tices appropriate to the subject or field and
intended audience.
On page 3, line 18, insert "as required under
paragraph (2)" after "website".
The amendment was ordered to be
engrossed and the bill to be read a
third time.
The bill (H.R. 946), as amended, was
read the third time and passed, as fol-
lows:
H.R. 946
Resolved, That the bill from the House of
Representatives (H.R. 946) entitled "An Act
to enhance citizen access to Government in-
formation and services by establishing that
Government documents issued to the public
must be written clearly, and for other pur-
poses.", do pass with the following Amend-
ments:
(1)On page 2, line 17, strike [relevant tol and
insert necessary for
(2)On page 3, strike lines 5 through 9 and in-
sert the following:
(3) PLAIN WRITING.-The term "plain writ-
ing" means writing that is clear, concise,
well-organized, and follows other best prac-
tices appropriate to the subject or field and
intended audience.
(3)On page 4, line 2, after "website" insert as
required under paragraph (2)
INDIAN VETERANS HOUSING
OPPORTUNITY ACT OF 2010
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 579, H.R. 3553.
The    PRESIDING      OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 3553) to exclude from consider-
ation as income under the Native American
Housing Assistance and Self-Determination
Act of 1996 amounts received by a family
from the Department of Veterans Affairs for
service-related disabilities of a member of
the family.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CASEY. I ask unanimous consent
that the bill be read a third time and
passed, the motion to reconsider be
laid upon the table, with no inter-
vening action or debate, and any state-
ments related to the bill be printed in
the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

16629

The bill (H.R. 3553) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
KINGMAN AND HERITAGE ISLANDS
ACT OF 2009
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to Calendar No. 582, H.R. 2092.
The   PRESIDING      OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 2092) to amend the National
Children's Island Act of 1995 to expand allow-
able uses for Kingman and Heritage Islands
by the District of Columbia, and for other
purposes, do pass with amendments.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs, with amendments, as
follows:
(The parts of the bill intended to be
stricken are shown in boldface brack-
ets and the parts of the bill intended to
be inserted are shown in italics.)
H.R. 2092
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the "Kingman
and Heritage Islands Act of 2009".
SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO NATIONAL CHILDREN'S
ISLAND ACT OF 1995.
(a) EXPANSION OF ALLOWABLE USES FOR
KINGMAN AND HERITAGE ISLAND.-The Na-
tional Children's Island Act of 1995 (sec. 10-
1401 et seq., D.C. Official Code) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
"SEC. 7. COMPREHENSIVE AND ANACOSTIA WA-
TERFRONT FRAMEWORK PLANS.
"(a) COMPLIANCE WITH PLANS.-Notwith-
standing any other provision of this Act, it is
not a violation of the terms and conditions
of this Act for the District of Columbia to
use the lands conveyed and the easements
granted under this Act in accordance with
the Anacostia Waterfront Framework Plan
and the Comprehensive Plan.
"(b) DEFINiTIONS.-For purposes of this sec-
tion, the following definitions apply:
"(1) ANACOSTIA WATERFRONT FRAMEWORK
PLAN.-The   term  'Anacostia  Waterfront
Framework Plan' means the November 2003
Anacostia Waterfront Framework Plan to re-
develop and revitalize the Anacostia water-
front in the District of Columbia, as may be
amended from time to time, developed pur-
suant to a memorandum of understanding
dated March 22, 2000, between the General
Services Administration, Government of the
District of Columbia, Office of Management
and Budget, Naval District Washington,
Military District Washington, Marine Bar-
racks Washington, Department of Labor, De-
partment of Transportation, National Park
Service, Army Corps of Engineers, Environ-
mental Protection Agency, Washington Met-
ropolitan Area Transit Authority, National
Capital Planning Commission, National Ar-
boretum, and Small Business Administra-
tion.
"(2)  COMPREHENSIVE   PLAN.-The   term
'Comprehensive Plan' means the Comprehen-
sive Plan of the District of Columbia ap-
proved by the Council of the District of Co-
lumbia on December 28, 2006, as such plan



NEWFILE
FILENAME: 0348.txt

16630                         CONGRE:
may be amended or superseded from time to
time.".
(b) MODIFICATION OF REVERSIONARY INTER-
EST.-Paragraph (1) of section 3(d) of the Na-
tional Children's Island Act of 1995 (sec. 10-
1402(d)(1), D.C. Official Code) is amended by
striking "The transfer under subsection (a)"
and all that follows and inserting the fol-
lowing: "Title in the property transferred
under subsection (a) and the easements
granted under subsection (b) shall revert to
the United States upon the expiration of the
60-day period which begins on the date on
which the Secretary provides written notice
to the District that the Secretary has deter-
mined that [thela portion of the District is
not using the property for recreational, envi-
ronmental, or educational purposes in ac-
cordance with National Children's Island,
the Anacostia Waterfront Framework Plan,
or [for another recreational, environmental,
or educational purpose, except that the re-
versionary interest of the United States
under this paragraph shall expire upon the
expiration of the 30-year period which begins
on the date of the enactment of the Kingman
and Heritage Islands Act of 2009.lthe Com-
prehensive Plan. Such notice shall be made in
accordance with chapter 5 of title 5, United
States Code (relating to administrative pro-
cedures).".
Mr. CASEY. I ask unanimous consent
that the committee-reported amend-
ments be agreed to, and the bill, as
amended, be read a third time and
passed; the motions to reconsider be
laid upon the table, without inter-
vening action or debate; and any state-
ments related to the bill be printed in
the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The   committee    amendments were
agreed to.
The amendments were ordered to be
engrossed and the bill to be read a
third time.
The bill (H.R. 2092), as amended, was
read the third time and passed.
UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE
UNIFORMED         DIVISION       MOD-
ERNIZATION ACT OF 2010
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask that
the Chair lay before the Senate a mes-
sage from the House with respect to S.
1510, U.S. Secret Service Uniformed Di-
vision Modernization Act of 2010.
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message:
S. 1510
Resolved, That the bill (S. 1510) entitled
"An Act to transfer statutory entitlements
to pay and hours of work authorized by laws
codified in the District of Columbia Official
Code for current members of the United
States Secret Service Uniformed Division
from such laws to the United States Code, do
pass with amendments.
Mr. CASEY. I ask unanimous consent
that the Senate concur in the House
amendments to the Senate bill, with an
amendment which is at the desk; that
the motion to concur be agreed to and
the motion to reconsider be laid upon
the table; further that the Senate
agree to the title amendment.

SSIONAL RECORD-SENATE, Vol. 1
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 4664) was agreed
to.
The amendment is printed in today's
RECORD under "Text of Amendments.")
The title amendment was agreed to,
as follows: "An Act to transfer statu-
tory entitlements to pay and hours of
work authorized by laws codified in the
District of Columbia Official Code for
current members of the United States
Secret   Service  Uniformed     Division
from such laws to the United States
Code, and for other purposes."
ACCESS TO THE GENERAL SERV-
ICES ADMINISTRATION'S SCHED-
ULES PROGRAM
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask the
Chair to lay before the Senate a mes-
sage from the House on S. 2868.
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message:
S. 2868
Resolved, That the bill from the Senate (S.
2868) entitled "An Act to provide increased
access to the General Services Administra-
tion's Schedules Program by the American
Red Cross and State and local govern-
ments.", do pass with the following amend-
ments:
Strike out all after the enacting clause and
insert:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the "Federal Supply
Schedules Usage Act of 2010".
SEC. 2. AUTHORITY OF THE AMERICAN RED
CROSS AND OTHER QUALIFIED OR-
GANIZATIONS TO USE FEDERAL SUP-
PLY  SCHEDULES   FOR   CERTAIN
GOODS AND SERVICES.
Section 502 of title 40, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
"(e) USE OF SUPPLY SCHEDULES BY THE RED
CROSS AND OTHER QUALIFIED ORGANIZATIONS.-
"(1) IN GENERAL.-The Administrator may
provide for the use by the American National
Red Cross and other qualified organizations of
Federal supply schedules. Purchases under this
authority by the American National Red Cross
shall be used in furtherance of the purposes of
the American National Red Cross set forth in
section 300102 of title 36, United States Code.
Purchases under this authority by other quali-
fied organizations shall be used in furtherance
of purposes determined to be appropriate to fa-
cilitate emergency preparedness and disaster re-
lief and set forth in guidance by the Adminis-
trator of General Services, in consultation with
the Administrator of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
"(2) LIMITATION.-The authority under this
subsection may not be used to purchase supplies
for resale.
"(3) QUALIFIED ORGANIZATION.-In this sub-
section, the term 'qualified organization' means
a relief or disaster assistance organization as
described in section 309 of the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5152).".
SEC. 3. DUTY OF USERS REGARDING USE OF FED-
ERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULES.
Section 502 of title 40, United States Code, as
amended by section 2, is further amended by
adding at the end the following new subsection:
"(Dl DUTY OF USERS REGARDING USE OF SUP-
