speech_id|speech
1110115288|Madam Speaker. I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from California . the author of this bill.
1110115289|Madam Speaker. at the outset. I want to thank and congratulate the Homeland Security Committee and Chairman THOMPSON. The committee has taken an important step forward towards preventing nuclear terrorism by persevering with this legislation. and I appreciate all of the hard work that the chairman and staff have put into it. I also want to thank other Members who have contributed greatly to the effort. one being the ranking member.
1110115290|once again. I thank you for your leadership in this area. I want to thank the former chairman of the Emerging Threats Subcommittee. an early supporter. JIM LANGEVIN. the current chairwoman of that subcommittee. YVETTE CLARKE. as well as the ranking member of the subcommittee. DAN LUNGREN. and in the last Congress. MICHAEL McCAUL. The Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act will help us fight one of the most important national security threats we face. that of nuclear proliferation. Countries around the world now have access to technology that was once the realm of the few. and dangerous nuclear materials are. unfortunately. sprinkled around the world. This is not a new problem. Illicit nuclear material has been intercepted in transit out of the former Soviet Union many times since the end of the Cold War. and the material we catch is surely only a small fraction of the total amount trafficked. Last year. Graham Allison wrote in Newsweek that the only thing that could keep nuclear bombs out of the hands of terrorists is a brandnew science of nuclear forensics. He continued that the key to a new deterrent is coming up with some way of tracing the nuclear material backward from an explosion in New York City to the reactor that forged the fissile material. even to the mines that yielded the original uranium ore. The Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act is designed to do just that. It is aimed at the decisionmakers in North Korea. Pakistan. Iran or elsewhere who could sell nuclear material. as well as the smugglers and corrupt officials around the world who could steal it. Those parts of the nuclear network can be deterred by the knowledge that. if their material is later intercepted. the United States will find out and will hold them responsible. This bill expands our ability to determine the source of nuclear material by authorizing the National Technical Nuclear Forensics Center in the Department of Homeland Security. This center will coordinate the various agencies. and it will ensure an efficient combined response when nuclear material is intercepted or used. God forbid. in a weapon. It will also advance the science of nuclear forensics. bringing in new radiochemists and physicists to rejuvenate a rapidly aging workforce and funding research on new methods to identify materials. It also takes an important step toward building the nuclear forensic database we will need to effectively track nuclear material. The bill asks the President to negotiate agreements with other nations to share forensic data on their nuclear materials. both civilian and military. This effort is vital. and the National Technical Nuclear Forensics Center must play a key role in negotiations to ensure that the data we obtain is the data we need for quick attribution and response. Nuclear terrorism is an indistinct threat of devastating consequence and therefore difficult to guard against. But as communications and transportation revolutions bring us ever closer to our allies. they bring our enemies close as well. I believe this bill will help make sure that our ability to prevent a nuclear terror attack keeps up with our enemies ability to attempt one. Again. I want to thank the chairman and ranking member for their leadership and urge all Members to support the bill.
1110115291|Madam Speaker. I would like to close by stating that all of us realize that a terrorist attack is a nightmare scenario. The fact that we came so close to the loss of life on Christmas Day reminded us dramatically of the dangerous world in which we live. Those of us from New York will never forget September 11. 2001. But just think of the ultimate nightmare scenario. and that would be a nuclear attack. That is almost beyond our imagination. That is why everything must be done to stop those attacks. and to also have the deterrent. as Congressman SCHIFF said. the deterrent of retaliation against any country. against any entity. against any individual. any organization. which was in any way involved in providing nuclear weaponry to be used against the United States. I strongly urge the adoption of this legislation. I have no further requests for time. and I yield back the balance of my time.
1110115292|"Madam Speaker. I yield myself such time as I may consume. In closing. I would encourage my colleagues to vote ""aye"" on the pending question. Doing so will allow this important homeland security legislation to be sent to the Presidents desk for his signature without delay. I yield back the balance of my time."
1110115293|The question is on the motion offered by the gentlewoman from New York that the House suspend the rules and concur in the Senate amendment to the bill. H.R. 730.
1110115294|In the opinion of the Chair. twothirds being in the affirmative. the ayes have it.
1110115295|Madam Speaker. on that I demand the yeas and nays.
1110115296|Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX and the Chairs prior announcement. further proceedings on this motion will be postponed.
1110115297|Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX. proceedings will resume on questions previously postponed. Votes will be taken in the following order: ordering the previous question on House Resolution 1017. by the yeas and nays. adoption of House Resolution 1017. if ordered. motion to suspend the rules on H.R. 3726. by the yeas and nays. motion to suspend the rules on H.R. 3538. by the yeas and nays. The first electronic vote will be conducted as a 15minute vote. Remaining electronic votes will be conducted as 5minute votes.
1110115298|The unfinished business is the vote on ordering the previous question on House Resolution 1017. on which the yeas and nays were ordered.
1110115299|The question is on ordering the previous question.
1110115300|"Madam Speaker. on rollcall No. 9 I was unavoidably detained. Had I been present. I would have voted ""nay."""
1110115301|The question is on the resolution.
1110115302|The unfinished business is the vote on the motion to suspend the rules and pass the bill. H.R. 3726. as amended. on which the yeas and nays were ordered.
1110115303|The question is on the motion offered by the gentlewoman from Guam that the House suspend the rules and pass the bill. H.R. 3726. as amended. This is a 5minute vote.
