speech_id|speech
1010162941|Mr. Speaker. on Tuesday. June 12. Stanely K. Sheinbaum will be honored at a benefit for Human Rights Watch on the occasion of his 70th birthday. His devoted efforts over many years in defense of civil liberties and on behalf of peace and justice around the world certainly make him the logical choice for this tribute. But it is perhaps typical of Stanley. that his special evening will also serve as a fundraising benefit for Human Rights Watch. a group with which he has been associated since 1981 and whose California chapter he has chaired since 1987. After all. why waste a perfectly good birthday. when you can put it to work for a good cause? Stanley has been a long time good friend of so many of us here in this Chamber. I know my colleagues join me in offering hearty best wishes for his 70th birthday. I thought my colleagues might enjoy seeing one of the tributes that will be paid to him on his special night. Those remarks. by Richard Parker. follow:
1010162942|Mr. Speaker. the history of American ingenuity and entrepreneurship includes great names like Eli Whitney. Thomas Edison. and Henry Ford. Robert N. Noyce. who died Sunday. June 3. of a heart attack. belongs on this list as well. In 1959. Robert Noyce coinvented the integrated circuit. also known as the microchip. The integrated circuitwhich harnessed the tremendous power of semiconductors into practical usewas the catalyst for the electronics revolution. It became the building block for products like personal computers. calculators. and programmable digital watches. Like the Model T and the light bulb. the microchip helped America change the world. Robert Noyces contribution did not end with his invention. In 1968. Mr. Noyce helped found the Intel Corp.. where he developed a method to build computer memories on semiconductor chips. Not only gifted with a brilliant scientific mind. Mr. Noyce was also a skilled manager who became a leader in commercializing the technologies his research made possible. He was also a forceful advocate for the electronics industry in Washington. receiving national awards in science and technology from Presidents Carter and Reagan. This February. he received the Charles Stark Draper Award from President Bush. Mr. Noyces most recent endeavor. which occupied him until the time of his death. was his work as president of Sematech. Sematech was founded in 1988 as a governmentindustry consortium to revitalize Americas chipmaking. The future success of Sematech will be the result of Mr. Noyces foundation. In addition to all the foregoing. and so many other accomplishments. Bob Noyce was a good man. He was unassuming. never intimidating another through the impressive power of his mind. He was curious about everything and devoted to constructive analysis. His approach was always that of the problem solver. rather than the cynic. and the result is a host of achievements far beyond the technical areas of electronics. Mr. Speaker. Robert Noyces ingenuity and entrepreneurship have transformed the world. He was also a kind man. whose humility was as great as his genius. America is the richer for his life. and the poorer for his passing.
1010162943|"Mr. Speaker. I am increasingly worried about the surface level analysis we are seeing today concerning our Nations defense needs. For one to believe that war. in its many forms. has become obsolete in todays world in quite obviously incorrect. However. it seems that this is the strong belief of proponents of a peacedividend. Shortrun. quickfix policies are often popular political maneuvers. but seldom prove to be the correct response in a given situation. Sir Issac Newton once said that ""every action has an equal and opposite reaction"". Taking action without careful consideration of such reactions is foolhardy and very dangerous. One need only consider nations such as Iraq and Syria who maintain substantial forces equipped with the most advanced weaponry to realize the need for a continued strong defense. Furthermore. the fact that unrest is still prevalent throughout Eastern Europe. as is evidenced by the turmoil in Lithuania as well as the outcome of the recent fraudulent elections in Romania. is reason enough to think twice before we take a sledgehammer to our defense programs. History has proven again and again the foolish nature of hastily implemented policies. To quote from his essay entitled. ""Dont Cash the Peace Dividend."" which appeared in the March 26 Issue of Time. Mr. Charles Krauthammer states. ""We are once again in the grip of post war euphoria. and our instinct is to do what we have always done: demobilize first. ask questions later."" We cannot afford to allow ourselves to become victims of post coldwar euphoria. and permit our Nation to follow the policies of immediate demobilization in the face of real potential threats around the globe. I strongly urge my colleagues to read the following article entitled. ""Dont use a Sledgehammer on our Defense Forces"" by F. Andy Messing. Jr. [From the Los Angeles Times. Feb. 21. 1990]"
1010162944|Mr. Speaker. on June 13 the Port Washington. Long Island. Chamber of Commerce will celebrate its 60th anniversary as a nonprofit organization dedicated to serving the commercial. industrial. civic and general interests of the Port Washington community. I call the attention of my colleagues to this milestone and commend the Port Washington Chamber of Commerce for its contributions to the quality of life on Long Island. Since its inception in 1930. the Port Washington Chamber of Commerce has taken an active and visible role in promoting the community. The organization distributed postal covers to commemorate the towns distinction as point of origin for the first mail flight to Bermuda. Later. the occasion of the first passenger flight to Europe saw chamberorganized ceremonies draw 5.000 spectators to see off the Pan Am Yankee Clipper. In recent years. the chamber has continued its support of the community. It is involved in a campaign to protect and enhance the communitys waterways and waterfront. It lobbied successfully for the enforcement of nodischarge regulations in Manhasset Bay and for the installation of pumpout stations at the town of North Hempstead dock and a local marina. It is lending its support to the revitalization of the towns central business district and to the alleviation of parking problems in the town. and serves as a leading participant in the Port Washington Child Care Partnership to bring improved child care services to working parents. At a dinner dance on June 13. the chamber will install its 60th anniversary officers and board of directors. Mr. Speaker. It also will bestow its Distinguished Community Service Award on Andrea Martone. a longtime Port Washington resident and the editor of the Port Washington News. Mr. Speaker. the business leaders. professionals and residents who make up the Port Washington Chamber of Commerce deserve a special commendation for their community activism and for continuing a spirit of voluntarism for the community that has been a hallmark of the organization for 60 years. Im sure my colleagues join with me today in saluting the Port Washington Chamber of Commerce for its good works. and I wish the organization further successes in the future.
1010162945|Mr. Speaker. I join my colleagues in support of passage of the Export Administration Act and the inclusion of Congressman LEVINES amendment to control the export of crude oil from California. Mr. Speaker. I support Congressman LEVINES amendment to the Export Administration Act. Export controls on Alaska and California crude oil affect much of the Nation and especially my territory because our prices for petroleum products are tied to prices on the west coast. Current export restrictions assure that our domestic suppliers have adequate local crude oil for their refineries. If a change in export policy causes these refiners to suffer a reduced supply of their preferred local feedstock. the result could likely be processing inefficiency. higher raw material costs. and higher consumer prices for finished petroleum products. Like other areas of the country. the economy and people of my territory rely on petroleum products for nearly all our energy needs. We have no access to nuclear or hydroelectric power. and coal is not a feasible substitute for petroleum. In addition to gasoline and diesel used by our cars and trucks. our commercial fishing fleet and air carriers require large amounts of distillate fuels. We also rely on diesel fuel for electrical power generation. I am. therefore. concerned that export of domestic crude oil could put upward pressure on prices for petroleum products In American Samoa. Mr. Speaker. for these reasons. I support the amendment as introduced by my colleague Congressman LEVINE.
1010162946|Mr. Speaker. Evarts High School In Harlan County. KY. is setting trends in education that other schools across the Nation would do well to emulate. Two years ago. the Prichard Committee for Academic Excellence chose Evarts High and seven other Kentucky schools to participate in a grand experiment. The Prichard project. as it has come to be known. encourages schools to begin the school year with a clean slate. A new classroom structure. New and innovative classes. many specially designed to meet the needs of Appalachian students. New opportunities for teachers to share their unique and underutilized talents with their school. The Prichard project works from one fundamental principle: motivation. Teachers. administrators. students. parents. and the local busi-
1010162947|Mr. Speaker. a different kind of summit is taking place this week in the Washington area. It wont be attended by the leader of the Soviet Union or the President of the United Statesat least not yet. But. it most certainly will have In attendance a great number of tomorrows leaders. I am describing the National History Day competition being held this week on the campus of the University of Maryland at College Park. Fom all across the United States. young men and women will showcase their scholarship. research. and intellectual curiosity In a variety of historical project presentations. The students gathering here have already successfully competed at the school. local. and State levels. They are winners In every sense of the word. I am glad to see the National History Day competition provide such a forum for encouraging scholastic achievements by our youth. A study of history can reveal invaluable lessons toward a better understanding of our culture. our society. and our world. It seems a particularly appropriate endeavor for the students of this generation to be engaged in historical research. So many changes are sweeping the historical landscape. Each and every day provides new perspectives on what the future may bring. The world these distinguished young scholars inherit will be quite a different one than the world we Members deal with daily. I am very pleased and proud that so many talented young students from my home district of Louisville and Jefferson County are participating in this years competition. From St. Edwards School we have: Kelly Demaree. Carrie Gandenberger. Teresa Seewer. Mary Wheeler. and Melissa Franconia. And. from St. Stephen Martyr School we have: Jude Stuecker. Kenzie Kapp. Suzanne Mangino. and Sally Bryan. Competing from Southern High School is Eric Kraus. from Kammerer Middle School. David Anderson. and. from Sacred Heart Model School. Lauren HamMann. I salute all of these fine representatives of Louisville and Jefferson Countywinners allwho have distinguished themselves and shown remarkable Intellectual and creative talents in their study of history. Their achievements reflect highly on the guidance of their parents and teachers and certainly bode well for their success in life.
