speech_id|speech
460102735|The session of this evening is for the purpose of considering the bill known as the District code bill.
460102736|I move that the House resolve itself into Committee of the Whole for the further consideration of the bill to establish a municipal cede for the District of Columbia. and pending that motion I move that all debate on the pending substitute offered by the gentleman from Illinois [Mr. Tow.snmm)j be limited to thirty minutes. The motion to limit debate was agreed to. The motion that the House resolve itself into Committee of the Whole was agreed to. The House accordingly resolved itself into Committee of the Whole. X222 IC (Mr. Bumows in the chair.) and resumed the consideration of the bill (H. R. No. 5541) to establish a municipal code for the District of Columbia.
460102737|The Chair would state that. properly. before the substitute of the gentleman from Illinois is considered. that portion of the text of the bill which it is proposed to strike out should be perfected. The Chair would suggest that there arc seven pages of this bill which should be considered. and. if necessary. amended. before the substitute is considered.
460102738|Before we enter upon the consideration gd that question I desire. by unanimous consent of the committee. to offer an amendment under the head of exemptions. My attention has been called to the fact that there is an omission in the list of exemptions. Mr. Corcorans Louise Home has never been taxed. I believe. silce its erection except two years. After having been for some years exempt from taxation. it was first taxed about 1874 for two years in succession. since which time it has been exempted. It is purely a charitable institution. At the end of the eighth line. on page 3 .1 move to insert a provision to exempt from taxation the Louise Home of Mr. Corcoran.
460102739|"My recollection is that when the subcommittee was drafting this section they had under consideration the question of exemptin this institution. and there were reasons which suggested themselves to the subcommittee which prevented them from nacluding it among exempt property. Now. while this is a charitable institution in one sense of the word. it is not in another. It is true it is a home for a certain class of widows. but only a certain class can get into that home-- genteel"" widows. The management does not admit everybody or persons from every section of the country. It is a sort of exclusive affair. It does not seem to me that it ought to be exempt. If the Committee of the Whole shall vote to exempt it I give notice I shall call for a vote in the House and elicit the facts in regard to the matter."
460102740|I trust the committee will not refuse to exempt this property. Insteadof being a source of revenue to the proprietor of it. on the contrary it is an expense of i30.000 or . 10.000 a year to him. It is one of the most beautiful charities I know of. This is a charity. no doubt. by Mr. Corcoran. who has donb more in the shape of charities to build up art in this city than any twenty people in the city of Washington. I think it would be hard to impose a tax upon this property. which. instead of being a source ofiacome to him. costs over .$ 30.000 or 640.000 a year.
460102741|Will the gentleman tell the committee under what provision the exemption has been made heretofore ? He sosaks of this property having been taxed for two years and then esexpted from taxation. If he is familiar with the provision under which the exemption has been made I should like him to state it.
460102742|What do you mean
460102743|Thegentleman has stated this property has been exempted from taxation for a period. If before that time it was subjected to taxation the exemption must have been in conformity to some law.
460102744|I said so.
460102745|What is that law?
460102746|I cannot turn to it.
460102747|It was done by special act last year. my friend will remember.
460102748|I can answer the question of the gentleman from Massachusetts. Several acts were passed affecting taxation and the rights of property so far as the public are concerned. since I have had the honor of a seat in this House. Some exemptions had been overlooked. At one time all the churches of the city were subjected to taxation. That was done under a law which evidently through an inadvertence included them as subject to taxation. Relief by subsequent acts has been granted in those cases. By the bill wbich I had the honor to present herelt was provided that church property used for church purposes should be exempted. Prior to that time all property. including parsonage and lots attached thereto. were exempted. There have been frequent changes in this respect. ThisLoulsolfome was not exempted. through inadvertence evidently. and it seems to me. notwithstanding the remark made sy the gentleman from Ohio. the property should be exempted from all taxation. It may be asectional charity.
460102749|I did not say that.
460102750|I say that.
460102751|It is not that. 3r. BUCKNER. -Very well. I will not say that. but it is trne that this charity was organized for the benefit of the people who were veed up and impoverished by the war. refined and elegant ladies who were left penniless. If there is objection this is not universal but that it is a charity exceptional in its character.thc same objection would apply to a great many of the best charities in the world. They cannot talce in the whole world. all classes. colors. and descriptions. It does not seem to me that should be any objection. That it is a charity. doing good work for those who need help. ought to bo sufficient. and that r. Corcorans memory will be blessed hereafter. as it is now by every one knowing anything of him and what he has done. is beyond al question. 1 thin his property should be exempted and hope the amendment will be adopted.
460102752|I heartily agree with making the proposed exemption. It seems. fron what my colleague haa said. it has been done recently by an act of Congress.
460102753|Wherever property of this character has been taxed through inadvertence. when the attentionof Congress has been called to the fact. the exemption has been provided for.
460102754|1 suggest to the gentleman from Ohio to withdraw his objection to this amendment. There is the same reason. so far as the State is concerned or the Union. in exempting this property there isju exempting church property. Mr. Hur.rorxs amendment was agreed to.
460102755|I want. on page 39. to call the attention of the committee to another matter which. it seems to me. should be amended. It is there provided that the Corcoran Art Gallery. with the works of art contained therein. and all real estate now owned bythe trustees of said institution. shall be exempt from taxation. When that clause was drawn it was understood by the subcommittee the only real estate owned by the CorcoranArt Gallery was alittle piece of ground adjoining. or nearly adjoining. the building. which. when they had aegnired title to the next piece of property from Admiral Leo. was intended to be used in the construction of an addition to the Art Gallery.
460102756|What ia the gentlemans amendment?
460102757|"I move to strike out in the clause to which I have referred the words ""and all real estate now owned by said institution."" ""It was understood. sir. when the subcommittee drafted this exemption all the real estate then owned by the Corcoran Art Gallery was the tract of land on which the galleryis located and another email lot adjoining one owned byAdmiral Lee. which it was expected the trustees would acquire. and that on both lots an addition to the gallery would be constructed. But I have been informed by citizens of Washington since then this institution has foreclosed mortgages on real estate upon which it made loans and bid thepropertyin. and that it is today renting that property and using it as a source of profit. It does seem to me property of that kind should not be exempted. for. if we begin to exempt it. tberesult will bothat onehalf of the property here would be exempt for similar reasons."
460102758|"I vill suggest to my friend from Ohio not to strike out the language indicated by his amendment. but to reach the evil which he complains of by adding to the section. afterthe words "" and all real estate now owned by said institution."" the words ""and used therefor."""
460102759|I have no objection to accepting that as a modification of my amendment.
460102760|The Clerkwillreport the amendment proposed by the gentleman from Virgnia.
460102761|The Clerk will now read chapter 6. on page 67. section 187.
460102762|An amendment was offered by the gentleman from Illinois. [Mr. TowxsnEND.] who is not now in his seat. His amendment appliesto thesesections. and I will suggest that perhaps it will be well to wait till he comes in.
460102763|This portion of the bill has not yet been read.
460102764|I would suggest that we pass over this for a moment.
460102765|The Clerk will read the sections. after which amendments can be inserted.
460102766|"M. Chairman. I wisho call the attention of the gentleman from Vfrisi to one clause of this section which has been read. I do not think it is right that lands that may have been bid of"" under this or any other law at any sale whatever in the name of the District and have not been redeemedI saylI do not think that is a just proposition to put into this bill"
460102767|I do not understand what propositioft the gentleman refers to.
460102768|I refer to the seventeenth line. on page 68. Tho CHAIRMAN. Will the gentleman from Michigan indicate his amendment?
460102769|"I merely offered the amendment in order to get some informationin referenceto this point. but necessarymyamendment will be to strike out the words ""under this or any other law. and whether heretofore or hereafter made."" It seems to me that this is an unjust provision. M1r. NEAL. If the gentleman from Virginia will allow me to explain this matter-"
460102770|That is the very object in view in offering the amendment.
460102771|I think I can make it clear tothe gentleman that it is not as unjust as it seems to be on first sight. There has been from time to time property sold in this District which has been bid off under former laws of the District of Columbia. as provided for in this law. That becomes the property of the District under the present law. and we provide here. nowithstanding this fact. that this property shall be held as forfeited property. and we give the owner a suitable time to redeem the same by paying the tax. penalties. and costs accrug thereon. with an additional 10 per cent. added.
460102772|And this gives two year§ after having been so bid off.
460102773|Yes. sir. two years after.
460102774|Still that sale may have been entirely different from the provisions that this law establishes. for instance. a provision in which the property would go to the District if the tax had not been paid upon it. and-
460102775|Let me explain further. That must have occurred two years ago. and the party had all that time to redeem his property. In the next section we provide that this property on the first Mionday inNovember of each year shall be &vertised for sale as forfeited lands. and on that sale the bidder may bid on it any sum that he chooses. the highest bidder taking the property. and on that the commissioner shall give him a good and sufficient dead which will convey a valid title to the holder of the property. But we provide further that within one year after that time a minor or other owner who may have been laboring under legal disabilities shall have time to come in and redeem the property.
460102776|I do not see how it can be more liberal than it is. Under the provision of this law it is one year before the sale can be made. If the District becomes the purchaser it is two years before it can make the deed to it or sell it after it becomes delinquent. then there is another year allowed for the redemption of it. so that about four years time elapses before the tax title can be made good. Four years time is certainly long enough. and unless some provision is made to compel parties to pay their taxes upon their property or else hold the property liable for the tax. we stay as well give up the idea of attempting to collect any taxes whatever in the District.
460102777|GE. I withdraw the amendment. I only wanted to obtain some explanation in reference to this matter.
460102778|"I renew the amendment for the purpose of asking a. question. I understand the gentleman from Ohio to say that the words in the fourteenth and fifteenth lines. ""two years after having been so bid off at any sale whatever in the name of said Distrit."" were intended to cover instances of sales made heretofore under some prior law. I wish to call attention to the fact that the beneficial operations of this section would not apply to sales made longer than two yearsago. for in that time. by this section. forfeiture will have taken place. I simply call attentionto this for the purpose of getting a reply to it."
460102779|It couldnot be n bar until after a sale has been made.
460102780|Under this act ?
460102781|Yes. under this aetna provided in section 188.
460102782|"I ask the gentleman from Ohio to weigh these words: Bid offat any sle whatcver in the name of said District under this or any other law. and whether heretofore or hereafter made. Now. the words ""heretofore made"" will of course apply to any sale that has been made heretofore within two years last past."
460102783|Or ten years. The object is to provide some way to finally close up these outstanding tax matters. and the committee could not devise any better scheme than this. We require all the property heretofore bid off in the name of the District of Columbia to go upon what is known asthe forfeitedland list~ and upon the first Monday of November annuallya list of these lands shall be prepared. with all thetaxes. penalties. costs. andinterest due or assessed thereon. as provided in section 188. andthe same shall be printed in pamphlet with notice of sale. as is provided for the publication of sale of delinquent lands in section 181.
460102784|The gentleman from Ohio will pardon me. He does not get my point. I am either entirely wrong or some other provison is required. Is it the fact that sales have been made in this District at any time prior to two years ago and bid off in the name of the District?
460102785|That is a question it is imposgible for me to answer. I presume that is the case.
460102786|Now assume a piece of property was bid off three
460102787|"I suggest to the gentleman to move an amendment. so as to make it read ""not less than two years."""
460102788|Does the gentleman see exactly my point?
460102789|I do not think the gentlemans point is well taken. but I have no objection to having the language made more specific.
460102790|It is not a matter in which I have the slightest interest. Bat what the gentleman suggests does not cover mypoint. I am just informed by the gentleman fromMissouri thvt a very large portion of the property in this District was bid off by the District four years ago. I suggest that the reading go on and xwo will prepare something at leisure. and not in a hnrry. that will cover the point.
460102791|If thecre be no objection. the section will be passed over for the present.
460102792|I will say to the gentleman from M ichigan that the idea of the committee in making this provision was to have these pamphlets at the office of the District commissioners with notice of sale so that any person wanting the pamphlet can call and gettY.
460102793|But the disftbution is not distinctly provided for.
460102794|It does not say in so many words that they shall be distributed. hut that is the object of their being printed. think It would be well to advertise that the list of these lands is printed in pamphlet form and that it is at the District office for anybody to get a copy who wants it.
460102795|"Let me suggest to the gentleman from Virginia that this section provides that the list of these lends shall be printed in pamphlet form with"" notice of sale. ""as is provided.. for the publicadionuof sale of delinquent lands inoeection18l."" Now. sectiou 161 provides that these pamphiets shall be delivered to any person who may call for them at the office of the District commissioners."
460102796|That was the idea we had in saking this provsision.
460102797|Lot us amend this section so as tomato the same provision here and we wil accomplish all the gentleman from nichigan desires.
460102798|If the pamphlets are delivered to all who want them. a sufficient publication is made.
460102799|It can do ne harm to require that these pamphlets shall not only he printed but distributed. The question being taken on Mr. Conuns amendment. it was agreed to.
460102800|"I offer the following amendment : In lines. after the word ""pamphlet "" insert the word ""oerm."" Thu amendment was agreed to. Mr.l SfrthmORD. I offer the following amendment: In line i. strike out the words ""a g e and indefeasble tite ""and isrt ""all right and title of le delinquent party against whom ta hat been assesstd."" One word. Mr. Chairman. in reference to that."
460102801|I suggest to the gentleman from Alabama that that might not be any title at all. The tax might be assessed against the vhreng prson. It ought to be made a lien on the property.
460102802|I concede that Tr. WILLioTS. A better amendment would be to make the deed convey all the right and title that. the DisLtict of Columbia would have.
460102803|I have no objection to the amendment suggested by the gentleman from Michigan. as it carries out the view I am drivMg at
460102804|The very object of this provision is to give the pura chaser a good title to the property. Taxes are assessed not against the owner of the property. not against the individual. but against the property itself. and I do not care whether it is taxed in the right name or not so the property is properly described and the taxes are legally assessed.
460102805|Is my friend going to make a speech.
460102806|I thought you had got through.
460102807|Oh. no.
460102808|"Very well. let me state what I desire to say and then the gentleman can reply to it. If the property is properly described and the tax is legally assessed. it does not matter in whose name the property may stand upon the record. The only way to assess taxes against real estate is to assess them against the property itself. not against the individual owner. We have provided in this bill that where the owner was not known the property should be assessed as the property of"" unknown.""thetax collected against it as ""unknown."" and if not paid then the property was to be forfeited and sold as the property of an ""nnnown"" owner. As I have already said. we give a man a year before his property becomes delinquent. If he fails to pay the taxes. then we give him two years after the property is sold at delinquent sale within which to redeem it. and before a man buying the property at such sale can acquire a deed he must give sixty days notice. J2 the property is not sold for enough to pay the taxes and the penalty. then it is forfeited to the District. and placed on the forfeited land list and sold a year afterward. C Now. it seems to me there should be an end somewhere of these proceedings by which a purchaser of land at tax sale may have confidenceo that he will either receive his money back or acquire a title to the property which cannot he disputed. Therefore we provide othat while in the case of a delinquent land sale the deed shall only be ynewa faee evidence of title in the case of laud sold as forfeited a good and indefeasible title shall be given. It seemed to us that it was necessary that there should be an end some time or other of this matter. and that at some period. if the land is not redeemed. the purchaser at a tax sale would know that he could acquire a good title to the land."
460102809|The amendment offered by the gentleman from Michigan meets the object which I had in view. It makesno difference. I submit to the gentleman from Ohio. how anxious or desirous he or any one else of us may be to have an end to what he calls these tax sales. I have no idea that any court in the United States would ever hold such a title as that to be worth the paper on which it is written. In the line of the point which I attempted to make the other night. it has been decided by the courts that no man in this country can have his property taken from him without due process of law. Not only has that been decided. but it is also asserted in the Constitution of the United States. and perhaps in every State constitution in the Union. No man is deprived of his property by due process of law who has not had his day in court. And it is nonsense. it seems to me. and I say so respectfully. for us to attempt to give a good and indefeasible title in law and equity without giving a party an opportunity in court. I have no objection to the amendment of the gentleman from Michigan [11r. Wixi s] if he offers it as a substitute for mine. and I will accept it in place of my amendmentto convey to the purchaser at such sale all the title which the District of Columbia may have. and the District of Columbia cannot have a particle of title unless it has complied with all the prerequisites required in the tax law and has given the partyhis day in court. It was attempted in ay own State. and I suppose it has been attempted in various other States in the Union and at various times. to say that by these ep parte notices. if I maybe allowed the expression. by these publications in newspapers. the owners of this property may be precluded from ever defending against a tax title. And every time the touchstone of the law and the Constitution was applied to it such a law was hold to be extraconstitutional. Therefore. in order to meet the case. we had to provide by law the machinery of a court so that a delinquent taxpayer should have served on him a notice regularly and lawfully. and have an opportunity to come into court and answer why he should not 1)0 divested of the title to his property in consequence of his nonpayment of the taxes. You cannot by a mere publication of a notice in a newspaper. which the party may. never see. divest him of his property. If you go forward and give such a notice as will bring him into eourt. then at is not only possible bat it is proper to divest him of his title under a tax sale.
460102810|I made no amendment. I merely made a suggestion.
460102811|Then I will let my amendment stand.
460102812|I move to strike out the last word. for the purpose of saying that I trust neither the amendment of the gentleman from Alabama [Mr. SaoR on] nor the proposed substitute ofthegentleman from Michigan [lEfr. WrnTars] will be adopted. If either is adopted. I hope it will be the amendment and not the substitute. Ifthe substitute shall be adopted. then the sale of laund for taxes will not amount to a row of pins. if the gentleman will excuseme forsocharacterizing his substitute. And I say so for this reason: if you convoy only the title which the District commissioners have. then it will only lie in my opinion a lien for the taxes. and of course that will not he worth anything and will not sell for anything. As Innderstand it. that is the whole title that is vested in the District commissioners an such cases. The amendment of the gentleman from Alabama is. as he states. in the line of the amendments he has heretofore offered to other sections. and which have been voted down. I trust thatthis amendment of my friend from Alabamawill not be adopted. If there be not some stringent rule as to enforcing tax titles in this District. we might as well bid farewell to the collection of taxes here against the land of some persons who never pdy taxes and only laugh when you attempt to make them pay by a sale. The object of the provisions incorporated in this code by the committee was to remedy this difficulty. so that such parties may know that when their lands are taxed they. like other people. must pay the taxes. or if they do not pay their lands will be sold. We have provided very carefully for giving to parties -whofail to pay their taxes the utmost opportunities to redeem their property. but after they have neglected all the opportunities offered. aLd still fail to pay their taxes. the land ought to be sold and the purchaser ou ht to gto a title.
460102813|Mr. Chairman. I appreciate fully the argument which the gentleman from Virginia [Mr. HU= Oac) presents in regard to the necessity of making as good a title as possible. but I have grave doubts whether you can legislate a perfect title on imperfect proceedings. If youxproceeding are imperfect I think the courts will set aside the title. notwithstanding you may declare that it shall be indefeasible. However. I do not propose to antagonizethat part of the bill. because gentlemen of the committee sees to be so strenuous in regard to it. and I am willing for one that they may take the chances in court upon it. There is one criticism. however. which I wish to submit. This section proposes to sell the forfeited lands. What are the forfeited lands? We look to a prior section to see. and here arises the very same point suggested by the gentleman from Massachusetts. Now there have been. as is admitted. sales in years past under various laws. and the lands have been bid in by the District of Columbia. years ago. perhaps without any clause in the law authorizing for eiture. Row. I submit that after the lapse of years (tough the taxes are still unpaid. it is true) it is not competent for Congress to pass a bill forfeiting those landsat least not without giving the parties interested ample opportunity to redeem them. If a year or two yearsany reasonable 7imewere given for redemption. I would not say you might not forfeit the land and give a good title.
460102814|Two years are given.
460102815|I am coming to that. Now we come back to the point suggested by the gentleman from Massachusetts. Suppose the sale was made three years ago. there is no time given for redemption. The bill does not say two years after the passage of the act.
460102816|I have prepared an amendment to cover that point.
460102817|I understand that. This much. however. is clear: no legislation can forfeit lands for the nonpayment of taxes until therehas been timea reasonable time--in which to pay the taxes or redeem the property. Now. if sales have been made in past years. it is not competent for you to declare the lands forfeited under those sales unless you give reasonable time for redemption. which. as I understand. is not given by the provisions of this bill.
460102818|Do the provisions of the bill apply to lands sold under former laws? h. WILLITS. They do. they apply to lands sold under any sale whatever. Therefore. while. as I have said. I am not disposed to antagonize the principle of this bill in regard to forfeiting lands. while I am willing that those who are interested in enforcing such forfeitures should take their chances in court. I do think that the prior section of the bill ought to be amended so as to provide for reasonable notice before forfeiture shall take place.
460102819|The gentleman from Massachusetts is now preparing an amendment which may meet the gentlemans objection. I witbjlraw the pro forma amendment.
460102820|Does the gentleman from Mihigan [Mr. Wanxis] think it possible that a mans title to real estate shall be forfeited without his having had an opportunity to defend it in some court ? Can you by legislation provide that the mere proceedings upon a tax sale shall be all the notice required to forfeit a mans title and give a good and indefeasible title in law and equity against him?
460102821|I think it perfectly competent to pass a law declaring that his rights shall be forfeited provided the proceedings are all regular.
460102822|Precisely p I admit that.
460102823|If the proceedings are all regular under the tax sale. then the title is perfect. The amendment of Mr. SAmtoRD was not agreed to.
460102824|"I offer the following. to come in afterthe word ""equity"" in line 24: And theproceeds of said sae. after the payment of the taxes. penalties. interest. and costs. and in excess thereof. shall be paid over by said commissioners to the former oner of the property so sold. upon demand thereof. the said eommsisioners taking a receipt thorefor. The amendment was adopted."
460102825|"I desire to test the sense of the committee on an amendment. I movb to strike out the words ""good and indefeasible"" and in lieu thereof to insert ""lrlmafacel."" This may be in the law or not in the law. butyriamfacie title in law or equity is the only result there can be from the passage of this law in any case. There is no principle in existence recognized in the court which can declare a title acquired by the process here proposed to be good and indefeasible in law and in equity. If you are to insert at the end of this paragraph the party should not have a standing in court. either in a law court or a chancery court. you could not reach it. There is no use in misleading men to purchase property by intimating to them there is no law under which a former owner maytest the title. and especially when this section provides that the highest bidder. even though it be for less than the tax. penalties. and costs. shall have the propertyproperty worth half a million of dollars. against which may basp sessed $5.000 for taxes. penalties. and forfeitures. and which may be bid off for one cent. and it provides the purchaser shall have a good and indefeasible title against the world. Now. so long as the owner of land mnst come and pay taxes running atthe rate of 10 per cent. interest. as long as they run per annum with penalties and costs and must pay upon that 10 per cent. even after the costs have accrued. and so long as that has to be paid. although the title may be defeated. that is enough. The owner of the land may be utterly unable to pay the tax. The owner of the land may be away. The owner of the land may have been deceived. He may have sent his money and have supposed it was all right He may have had a dishonest agent. No matter what the circumstances. without any possible fault whatever. he maybe deprived of his land. And if this law should be held good the purchaser of the land shall have a title which could not be attacked. no matter what equities existed. no matter what violations of law brought about the result. I venture there is no State in this Union and no Legislature of any State in this Union which ever passed such a law. or. if they did. there is no court that ever sustained it."
460102826|Will the gentleman from Michigan refer me to some lawbook by which I can find what a tax title is I
460102827|That is an elementary proposition known to every student of the law. Yx. BOUCK. I can understand what it means if you say the deed prima fae shall convey the title.
460102828|JPrhmafaoie title is presumptive title.
460102829|It is no title at all.
460102830|The phrase is often used in that way. A title on itsfaceis to be considered good until rebutted by other circumstances.
460102831|I hope the amendment of the gentleman from Michigan will not prevail. The plan of the committee in regard to the sale of delinquent tax lands is to this effect: where the property has been sold at the first sale aprmafacE title is conveyed. If that land is bid in by the commissionersof the District of Columbia and held and taxed as any other land in the District is taxed and held. then when the District undertakes to sell. the title of the District conveyed in that deed by sale cannot be attacked afterward. It conveys a good and indefeasible title.
460102832|Has anything in the meantime been done under the law to make the title which the District conveys any better thauthe other. any higher title I
460102833|It makes it better in this: if the party delinquent still holds out and will not pay the taxes which this lawprovides may he p aid up to the sale by the District. then the party still holding out and failing to pay his taxes must submit to an indefeasible title when the District of Columbia sells. The supposition tbt the gentleman makes about property worth $l.000.000 being sold for a cent is about as probable as the sky falling and catching larks. We all know property of value brings a go market price at sale in this District when the purchaser knows he is going to get a title. The reason why property does not bring in value at these tax sales is because the purchaser knows he cannot get a good title.
460102834|He gets nothing but a lawsuit.
460102835|Nothing but a lawsuit. and that is the reason why tax sales in this District have been altogether a failure. and that is the reason why come of the people in the District refuse to pay their taxes. Now pass this law. which throws around the owner of the property every safeguard in the way of redemption. running through a period of four years. and my word for it there will not be ten sales where there are now a thousand. People will pay their taxes. if this becomes a law. without any difficulty. 2r. CONGER. But no lawyer will be afraid of this section. It will scare ignorant and credulous people only.
460102836|If the gentleman from Michia.n has property here. or if he is a propertyowner in the District. it would scare him. I imagine. if he was delinquent.
460102837|But I am a timid man anyhow.
460102838|I move to strike out the last word for the purpose of asking the gentleman from Virginia a question. I understand the gentleman to be contending for this. and my colleague on the committee from Ohio also. simply for the purpose of determining this ta matter. Now does the gentleman fromrirginia or the gentleman from Ohio know of a single State in this Union whoseLogislature has IAX- 19. over passed such a law as this. attempting to give a tax title such a character as is proposed to be given to it here ?
460102839|I know of no State which makes such liberal provision for delinquent taxpayers as this bill makes.
460102840|Then another question: does not the gentleman know that in many States of this Union it has been attempted to give s good and indefeasible title by tax sale and the Supreme Court has decided in every instance that it could not be done?
460102841|i do not know of any such decisions.
460102842|It has been doneinmyown State. andithas been so decided by the Supreme Court of the United States.
460102843|In what case ?
460102844|In the cases to which I referred the otter night. and also the case in 48 Otto. cited as affirming the contrary doctrine in the case of Smalls. The gentleman from Illinois cited me to it as exploding the doctrine of Cooley on Constitutional Limitations. Blackwell on Tax Titles. and the fortyeight Alabama Reports. but he was in error. as he will find by rereading it. Now. there has not been a single successful attempt ever made in the United States to convey a mans property by an indefeasible title at a tax sale without giving him the opportnnityto defend it. That has been tried in several States and in my own State unsuccessfully. and the machinery of the law has been provided by which the tax delinquent shall go into court and show cause why his title should not be divested. There is no use in putting such a section as this into the law. It will only be a snare and a delusion. Every man who buys property at such sales under such a law would suppose he was getting a conelusive title. I have no idea that the courts will sustain it.
460102845|"What objection is there to inserting in the twentythird line. after the word ""held."" the words ""4jprjinafacle."" and after the word ""title. ""in feesimple . so that it will read. which shall be held primafae to convey a good and indefeasible title in feesimple "" ""We know that the words used in this section may b held to convoy title for a limited time. for a year or during life. but if the words ""feesimple"" are inserted the meaning cannot be mistaken. By inserting the words ""prima fadee"" it would be held as presumptive evidence of title. Otherwise the burden would rest upon the purchaser of showing that all of the necessary preliminaries had been complied with. These words. if inserted. would give all necessary protection to the purchaser of property at such sales and make the section complete."
460102846|Does the gentleman from Alabama insist upon his jrofosrma amendment?
460102847|No. sir. I withdraw it.
460102848|The gentleman from Massachusetts will please indicate his amendment.
460102849|"As there is an amendment pending. I offer this as a substitute : Insert after the word ""hold"" the words ""jrita fiacie."" and after the word title"" the words ""in feesimple"" in line 23 of this section."
460102850|I accept the substitute.
460102851|The Clerk will report the substitute presented by the gentleman from Massachusetts whichhas been accepted by the gentleman from Michigan in lieu of his amendment.
460102852|As I understand. although the substitute was adopted. it was in the nature of an amendment to the amendment ?
460102853|The gentleman from Michigan accepted the amendment in lieu of his own.
460102854|Very well . I was mistaken.
460102855|I believe it is agreeable now to the gentleman having charge of this bill to return to. the section on the preceding page from that now under consideration. which was passed over. to provide for that place which was omitted. I send up an amendment which vill be readily understood.
460102856|I have no objection to that.
460102857|I suggest that the amendment adopted on the motion of the gentleman from Massachusetts to the former section should also be inserted here.
460102858|"I do not think that is necessary. The language hero is ""under any law authorizing such sales."" That applies to the preceding amended section."
460102859|"I offer the following amendment: In line 5 strike out the word ""conclusive"" and insert ""-nia fc.-."""
460102860|I do not wish to delay the committee at all . but I want to offer a suggestion and to call the attention of the lawyers on the c he fact that the provision at the beginning of this section seems to be a very peculiar one. I am not a lawyer. but it stems to me that the provision here is very strong : No court. nor any judge thereof. shall allow any injunction er ther retraining order whatever on behalf of any person. compay. or corporstien. to restrain or peent any officer from the proper discharge of any of the duties devolved upon That is in regard to the sale of real estate. That seems to me to be very strong and do not believe it ought to be the law. I believe that every citiaen of the United States whose proparty is abeut to be offered for sale for delinquent taxes should ho permitted to appeal to the couri a sk for an injunction to restrain the officer from selling his property. His cause will then get into court and he can havea hearing. and if there has been any mistake made or any improper assessment. or if there have been any improper proceedings in any way. ho has his recourse at law. It seems to me this part of the section should be stricken out.
460102861|Dues the gentleman offer an amendmn th?
460102862|I merely call the attention of the comittee to this part of the section.
460102863|Lt the gentleman move to strike that out.
460102864|I move to strie out the first eight lines. M . ATKINS. Lot the gentlen read the language which h dosires to have stricken out.
460102865|I will do so. It is as followst: No court. nor any judge thereof. shall allow any injunction or other restraining order whatever on behalf of any person. company. or corporation to restraitor prevent any officer from the proper discharge of any of the duties devolved upon him byany of the provisions of this title. nor from the collectien of any taxes upon any propsity. real or pronal. by the proper officer thereof either by istress or in any moe proavidod by ew. I will not insist on my amendment. If the committee do not see proper to strike out that portion of the section. let it go.
460102866|If the gentleman from California withdraws his amendment. I renew it. I do not know a State of this Union where there is ouch a statute as that.
460102867|There is exactly such p statute in Tennessee.
460102868|There may bein Tennessee. but Icertainysheould. not wish to have a statute of that kind in this District whore the peopie have no voice in making the law which governs diem. It is avery strange statute. I am willing to make the law for this Distrit as srong as that of the average statutes of the States of the Union governing such matters. But £ am not willing to vote for this section as it stands. I move to amend by striking out the fist eight ines of the section.
460102869|That would necessitate striking out the whole section.
460102870|This is the law of the State of Miassachuetts. and it has been antained by the supreme oury of that Stat.
460102871|In this language I
460102872|There is no need of having a statutory provision in that State. because th supreme court holds a party who seeks relief from taxation5 such relief as this. mnst seek his -remedy at law and not in equity.
460102873|As to real estate or personal property?
460102874|"As to every kind of property subject to taxation. Therefore this statute only expresses the decision of the supreme court of that State. In every instance when a party applies for an injunction or restraint to prevent the collection of taxes the application is refused and the party is remitted to his statutory remedy of correction by legal process. No damage is done to the party. I submiltIo my friend from California and the gentleman from Iowa that he has his full remedy. If the State or the town is enforcing the payment of a sum of money which he considers should not be enforced. he says. ""I deny your right to enforce it."" Then. for the purpose of summary colleetiodi. the State or town can say. ""You pay this money and then you will have an action to recover back your money. you pay it under protest."" And there is no sale. The payment of the tax stops everything. I think the doctrine may just as well be applied to the people of this District who are subject to taxation as to any people anywhere. I do not think it is a sound doctrine. as the gentleman from Iowa says. to make a mild and gentle law for the people of the District because they are not represented here in Congress."
460102875|I did not say that. M1r. ROBINSON. I think that is the substance of what the gentleman says. If it is right for us to legislate for the people of the District at all. let us legislate in a sound and reasonable way. We legislate in that way for our people. and I submit it is proper legislation. The tax is something that the person against -whom it is properly assessed should pay promptly. and there should be summaryproecess against the party who would stand out and withstand the collection of that tax. If you go on without such a statute as this. and if the courts in equity in this District should not hold in accordance with the doctrines held by the Massachusetts courts. what would be the result? You might levy a tax on the people. and they would take you into a court of equity and keep you there year after year in controversy about the tax. I need not enlarge upon that. I think it is apparent to every gentleman.
460102876|One word in reply to the gentleman from Massachusetts. [Mr. RonDnsor.] I do not ask for aralein this regardthat is milder than the general average of the statutes of the different States. It may be that the Massachusetts rule is very rigid in that regard. it maybe that the rule in Tennessee is rigid. butwhatharm could possibly come to the revenues of this District if you allow to a. court the right to hear an application for an injunction. and give the court authority to set a day when the propertyowner should come forward andpresent his case. and when the District throughits attorney should endeavor to show cause why an injunction should not issue 7 Certainly no harm will come to the revenue. unless you prosuppose that the courts are unfriendly to a collection of the revenue. I do not know any reason in the world why you should say to the people here that they shall not have an injunction to restrain an nnlawful sale of their property.
460102877|The gentleman from Massachusetts spoke of the law of Massachusetts. and said that this provision was similar to that law. All I have to say about that is that I know they are very strict in Massahusetts . in fact. they are so strict that they disfranchise those who do not pay a pollta xa thing which is not done in any other State that I know of.
460102878|It is done in Virginia.
460102879|We must do one of two things: provide a law by which taxes can be collected. or else abandon the idea of collecting taxes at all and let the General Government pay all the expenses of the District of Columbia. If the members of this Congress are willigto do that. lam with them. I shouldlike to see this city made a &reat and magnificent city. the greatest on the American continent. if not the greatest in the world. and I am willing to help pay the taxes necessary for that purpose. But I understand the policy isto require the peoleof this District to pay a portion of these taxes. As long as we legislate for the people of this District. as the gentleman from Massahnsetts LMr. ROnnzsoN] says. we must legislate in a sound and proper manner. in other words. we must provide laws for levying taxes in a reasonable manner. andthenprovide the necessary machineryforcoliecting those taxes. There is now no law in this District prohibiting the courts of the District from issuing restraining orders in these cases. What is the result? The collection of taxes has in a measure been obstructed by the judges of this District issuing restraiuing orders and injunctions. when calledfor. One of the judges of this District is already in arrears of taxes to the amount of several thousand dollars. And Iam told by citizens of this District who are taxpayers aud lawabiding men (I do not know how it is myself) that there is no trouble whatever for any man who wishes to shirk the payment of taxes to get an injunction or restraining order from that judge. When we permit a court to issue an injunction or restrainng order in these cases we virtually say that the revenue machinery of government may be stopped by a judge. because if he can issue such an order in one case he can issue it in all cases. The result here today is that there are hundreds of cases pending in the courts. some of which have been upon the -dockets for years. and notwithstanding all that has been urged by the district attorney they have not been heard heretofore for want of time. We say by this sectionto the people of this District that their property shall be assessed for taxes. that they shall be duly notified of that assessment. that after the assessment has been made the property shall go upon the tax duplicate. and the people must then pay the taxes. If any one thinks that any wrong is done in that assessment. the tax can be paid underprotest andrecovered baekby action at law. The gentleman from Iowa says that he knows of no State in this Union which allows anything of that sort. I say to him that formerly in Ohio no injunction was allowed restraining the officer from collecting thetaxes. men had to pay the taxes. Now. by virtue of lamw. certain proceedings may be had but none other. and that is by positive statute. I trust the amendment of the gentleman from Iowa [Mr. WcvEn] will be voted down. The amendment of Mr. WEAVER was not agreed to.
