speech_id|speech
910276677|Mr. Speaker. in these days of criticism and doubt on everything from the Bible. the U.S. Constitution. the President. the Congress. and even the rules the average U.S. citizen lives by. it is heartening to find the popularity of the science. research. and development space program. As the ranking minority member of the House Science and Astronautics Committee. during the past several weeks I have checked through the large Pittsburgh metropolitan and industrial area and find our citizens uniformly favor keeping the United States foremost in science. research. development. space and technology. In fact. most of our citizens feel that the progress in science. research. development. and technology have been major contributory elements to the high standard of living which we Americans now enjoy. In order to keep ahead for the future. the average western Pennsylvania citizen feels that we must continue to emphasize education. and keep the Federal Government. as well as the Pennsylvania government cooperating with our corporations in business and the development of new practices. new products. and new horizons. Our Allegheny CountyPittsburghFair. which runs 5 days through Labor Day each year. exhibits everything from farm products to advanced technology and engineering and draws crowds by the hundreds of thousands. The total attendance this year from western Pennsylvania. northern West Virginia. and eastern Ohio exceeded 750.000 people who viewed exhibits and took part in projects. This is America at its best. Our Allegheny County commissioners. Commissioner Staisey. Commissioner Foerster. and Commissioner William Hunt are to be complimented on this fine success of the fair this year for the benefit of our citizens. At my request. in cooperation with the Allegheny County commissioners. the National Aeronautics and Space Administration lent a moon rock specimen brought back by the Apollo 12 crew. This moon rock exhibit of NASA was placed in a small room in the basement of the Park Administration Building. As a member of the House Science and Astronautics Committee. my office and I arranged for the display and we had five people and myself. as well as an Allegheny County Police Officer as guard assist in handling the surprising number of people who crowded in every day to view the Apollo 12 moon rock exhibit. We gave to those people specially interested in further information on the moon rock a statement on this particular moon rock. which I am enclosing for the Therefore. I recommend to the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the Members of the U.S. Senate that strong support be given to science. research. development. technology. and education to insure the future success of the United States. to maintain U.S. industry as first in research and technology. and to fund adequately our educational institutions. which is the greatest and goodly heritage this generation can give to our young people and the coming generations of American citizens. The statement on the moon rock follows:
910276678|Mr. Speaker. on Thursday. August 6. the body of Marine Corps Capt. C. Gery Bowen was laid to rest with full military honors in Dallas. Captain Bowen was a career officer and one of Texas many heroes of the Vietnam war. He flew some 311 combat missions and came through all of them unscathed. only to fall ill while serving as a flight instructor at the Naval Air Station in Beeville. Tex. He was a much decorated individual and under leave to extend my remarks. I include the text of the two most important decorations which were accorded to Captain Bowen:
910276679|"Mr. Speaker. the Antioch Environmental Council recently initiated a worthwhile program of ""honoring"" the top water polluters of the month by presenting them with a Gold Record Award. Occasionally. this dubious distinction Is presented a national agency whose activities are deserving of such recognition. Such a ""distinction"" was merited in the councils viewand in my ownby the U.S. Army for its remarkable decision to dispose of its undisposable accumulation of deadly nerve gas by dumping it into the Atlantic Ocean. Surely. such innovative action is worthy of attentionif not acclaimand the Antioch Environmental Council has properly given the U.S. Army that attention. I include their letter on this matter for your attention:"
910276680|Chairman. Antioch Environmental Council.
910276681|Mr. Speaker. Mr. Hobart Rowen. business editor of the Washington Post. has ably analyzed some of the fallacies in the now pending foreign trade bill in his column -of Sunday. September 6. His cogent appraisal of this legislation as it relates to jobs of American workingmen. and its open invitation to quotas for many American Industries. not just two. and a consequent international trade war should be read by every Member of this House. I. therefore. submit for inclusion in the RECORD the article. as follows:
910276682|"Mr. Speaker. all of -us in Congress share concern over the wave of terrorist hijackings which has emerged as a new weapon of international warfare. Our hearts go outto the victims and their anxious relatives. I feel that the Government of this Nation has a clear and definite responsibility to act to meet this new threat to safety and peace of mind. Various solutions have been suggested. Some innovations have been triedall have been found wanting. Inspection of passengers. various screening devices and even ""frisking"" of suspected hijackers has failed to protect the traveling public. The apparent only recourse is to place military armed guards on international and coastal flights originating in the United States. This is a serious step and an encroachment on traditional separation of military and civil functions. However. these are unusual and trying times. The problem we are dealing with is extremely seriousas right now 300 lives hang in the balance. depending on the decisions of fanatical Palestinian guerrillas. I would hope that other nations would follow suit. since international cooperation on return of hijackers seems beyond the realm of cooperative agreement at the present time. I urge the President to take this step with all due care to preservation of public rights. but with fullscale protection for the flying public in mind. Eventually we will undoubtedly find other ways. but todays answer must be applied to todays emergency."
910276683|Mr. Speaker. as we return after the House recess. schools across the country are beginning the fall term. A very pertinent editorial emphasizing the value of a wellrounded education was carried in the Thursday. August 20 WorthPalos. Ill.. Reporter. I feel that it is an exceptionally pertinent commentary on the subject and ask to insert the editorial at this point:
910276684|"Mr. Speaker. it is a pity that more visitors to our Capitol do not have an opportunity to see and appreciate the works of art located here. Only two of the paintings which hang in the Speakers lobby of the House of Representatives are not portraits. These are the pair of landscapes by Albert Bierstadt. prominent artist of Western America during the 19th century. The House. in 1867. adopted by unanimous consent the resolution of Mr. Banks: Resolved: That the Committee on the Library be authorized to contract with Albert Bierstadt for two paintings thoroughly American in character. representing some prominent feature of scenery or important event in the discovery or history of America to fill 2 unoccupied panels in the chamber of the House of Representatives. Bierstadt. when contacted by the committee. asked for $40.000 for each painting. The discussions ended there. but not permanently. for. on March 3. 1875. the chairmanof the Joint Committee on the Librarywas authorized to purchase of Mr. A. Bierstadt his painting of the landing of Hendrik Hudson now on exhibition in the hall of the House of Representatives. at a price not exceeding $10.000. This purchase was made. and. in 1878. a companion painting. ""Entrance Into Monterey."" was purchased from the artist. also. for $10.000. They were 10 feet 6 inches by 6 feet each. and hung on either side of the Speakers desk in the Chamber. Early in the 20th centurybefore 1910the paintings were removed to a retiring room connected with the Speakers lobby. They were moved again during the 1920s. and the paintings have since hung above the Members staircases at either.end of the Speakers lobby. The painter. Albert Bierstadt. was born in Dusseldorf. Germany. January 7. 1830. He was brought to America at an early age. but returned to Dusseldorf in 1853 and entered the academy. afterward studying in Italy and Germany. He was elected national academician in 1860. chevalier of the Legion of Honor of France in 1867. and received medals and various orders from Austria. Germany. Bavaria. and Belgium. He was at one time a pupil of Emmanuel Leutze. He died in New York. February 18. 1902. Charles E. Fairman. Art and Artists of the Capitol of the United States of America. USGPO. Washington. 1927. p. Bierstadt was acclaimed in America and Europe for his landscapes. particularly those of the Sierras and the Rockies. He achieved national recognition following his first trip West with Gen. Frederick Landers 1858 mapping expedition. He made a second trip in 1863. reaching California and Oregon for the first time. Following an extended European trip to make studies for the painting of Hendrik Hudsons landing. Bierstadt returned again to San Francisco in 1872. from where he visited Yosemite and Hetch Hetchie Canyontwo of his most famous subjedts. Because one of the Bierstadt paintings portrays an historic and scenic place in the congressional district which I have the honor to represent. I have researched and discovered some pertinent information which I believe will interest Members and visitors who enjoy the variety of art which adorns our Capitol."
910276685|"Mr. Speaker. an example of what I consider to be the responsibility and dedication of the majority of our young people was recently called to my attention. Miss Wendy Morony of Chico. Calif.. recently wrote an essay entitled ""I Believe in America."" winning first place in the American Legions essay contest held annually. Because this expression of patriotism and concern so thoroughly examines both the ills plaguing our country as well as the constructive and orderly processes for rectifying these ills. as well as demonstrating the high degree of maturity and responsibility of so many of our young people. I proudly and respectfully submit Miss Moronys essay Today our country seems to be at a turning point. America is facing dark days which threaten her very existence. All around us are problems. many of a natural variety and others wholly manmade. Among us are those who live daily with poverty and hunger. The air we breathe. the water we drink. the cities we live in. are all fouled by dirt and pollution. Overpopulation threatens to outstrjp our food supply in a few short decades. Our involvement in Vietnam has divided our country into two separate camps. A desire by minority groups to be afforded the same opportunities and privileges as all Americans has resulted in serious racial strife. particularly in our larger cities. Our educational system is at a crossroads where the authority of our universities and colleges is being challenged by campus rebels who sitin. demonstrate. riot. burn. bomb. and destroy. and these unfortunate conditions are now. In some cases. even spreading to our high schools and grammar schools. Many believe that family life in the United States is deteriorating and that marriage and the family. as we know it today. will soon be outmoded and obsolete. The influence and prestige of the church is declining and the structure of religious belief is undergoing great change. We are in the midst of a sexual revolution. heightened by the advent of ""the pill."" which is reshaping codes and morals which have been in existence for centuries. The degree of alcoholism in the United States is alarmingly high. Drug abuse. espe-"
910276686|Mr. Speaker. my mail has reflected the views of many constituents concerning the situation of the economy. specifically the battle against inflation. An editorial in the Thursday. August 20 Tribune of Harvey. Ill.. effectively discusses the subject and is. I believe. an objective commentary on the economic situation:
