speech_id|speech
910272665|Without objection. it is so ordered.
910272666|Mr. President. the corps has itself appointed an ex officio Environmental Advisory Board partially in response to the criticism it has received. It consists of six men authorized to advise the corps concerning environmental issues. While the Board gives every sign of being a good idea. I believe it is not nearly effective enough as presently structured. What is worse. it carries no promise of improvement in the future. The legislation I am introducing today builds on the principle and structure that the corps itself has chosen and in my judgment strengthens it to insure its effectiveness. It is my plan to establish a permanent. statutory Environmental Advisory Board within the Corps of Engineers. The Board shall consist of six members to be chosen by the Secretary of the Army from a list of candidates submitted by the Presidents Council on Environmental Quality. This. hopefully. will insure that only highly qualified environmentalists be nominated to the Board. but it enables. at the same time. the Secretary of the Army to exercise a certain degree of flexibility in choosing those to serve. The Boards primary function will be to submit a recommendation on each corps project to the Secretary of the Army before any construction has begun. or any permit issued. Their recommendation will be based upon the environmental considerations surrounding the proposed project. If the Secretary of the Army decides to act contrary to the recommendations of the Board. the matter will automatically be forwarded to the Secretary of Defense who shall. after reviewing the Boards recommendations and the Secretarys reasons for not following them. make a final decision. In addition. the Board shall be represented at each hearing conducted by the corps. and possess the right to hold initial hearings and/or subsequent hearings. The annual report of the corps to the Congress shall include a summary of the Boards recommendations to the corps. the actions taken by the corps in response to those recommendations. and any other comments concerning the operations of the corps with respect to the environment which It deems pertinent. Mr. President. the enactment of this legislation will stand as a benchmark in the history of environmental legislation. It will for the first time provide a structure to insure the consideration of the environment in all projects proposed to be undertaken by the corps. More importantly. it will establish the important precedent for creating In each governmental department a method for the systematic inquiry into these questions. Perhaps some might comment that this legislation is unnecessary since the corpE has already established an Advisory Board. I would point out. however. tha this Board. though conceived some b months ago. has met only once and hac not yet been asked to submit its opinion on any project. I am sure that the corpE is sincere in its desire to protect the environment. but it is my opinion that so far its work represents only a good beginning. By statutorily establishing this Board. by specifying the manner in which the members of the Board shall be chosen. and by spelling out its functions. this legislation promises prime attention to the environment. If. for any reason. the Secretary of the Army. or the Secretary of Defense decide to go against the Boards environmental recommendations. I am confident that their reasons will be justifiable since both the public and the Congress will have the opportunity to keep close tabs on these issues. Mr. President. each Member of the Congress can site innumerable examples of where the views of reasonable citizens concerning some project of the Corps of Engineers have been unnecessarily squelched. Had this Board existed 10 years ago. these controversies might never have arisen. Each of us in this body knows that there are some bills which have been introduced which received considerable publicity. but which realistically do little to solve our environmental problems. This bill. though. is not a grandstander. It is a bill that is a downtoearth practical solution that will work. The idea behind this Board is long overdue. In order to protect the environment. in order to protect the rights of all citizens to an unspoiled environment. and in order to enable the corps to carry out its duties. this legislation deserves the immediate and favorable consideration of the Congress. I am grateful for the powerful support offered by the cosponsorship of Senators RANDOLPH and COOPER who have distinguished themselves through the years in their concern for preserving our environment. The bill to amend the Environmental Quality Improvement Act of 1970 in order to establish a Corps of Engineers Environmental Advisory Board. introduced by Mr. PERCY (for himself.
910272667|The senior Senator from West Virginia is recognized.
910272668|Mr. President. does the Senator from Illinois still hold the floor?
910272669|Mr. President. does the distinguished Senator wish the floor? I would be happy to yield it to him.
910272670|Mr. President. the Senator from Illinois may yield the floor and I will take the floor in my own right.
910272671|Mr. President. I would be very happy to yield the floor.
910272672|Mr. President. I think it would be well if the Senator yielded to the Senator his remaining time. because I am about to propound a unanimousconsent request.
910272673|Mr. President. I yield the remaining time to the senior Senator from West Virginia.
910272674|Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that once the Senator yields the floor. there be a period for the transaction of routine morning business with a time limitation on statements made therein for 3 minutes.
910272675|Without objection. it is so ordered.
910272676|Mr. President. does the distinguished Senator from Kentucky desire to make remarks on this matter?
910272677|Mr. President. I understand that the Senator has yielded to the senior Senator from West Virginia. If there is any time remaining I will speak on the matter.
910272678|The Senator from West Virginia has 13 minutes remaining. Following that time. there will be a period for the transaction of routine morning business with a period therein not to exceed 3 minutes.
910272679|Mr. President. I am gratified to join the able Senator from Illinois as a cosponsor of his bill to establish an Environmental Advisory Board in the Corps of Engineers. The Senator from Illinois has quite properly called attention to the very substantial impact on our natural environment by the civil works projects constructed by the Corps of Engineers. It is important that this impact be fully recognized and that projects under the Jurisdiction of the corps be planned and executed in such a way as to avoid undesirable results. I commend my colleague from Illinois for taking the initiative to create a body which would concern itself exclusively with the important work of the Corps of Engineers. and its relationship to the environment. If the measure is enacted. I do not anticipate that the Environmental Advisory Board would relieve the Council on Environmental Quality of any of its responsibilities as established by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. I envision. rather. that the Environmental Advisory Board of the Corps of Engineers would complement and reinforce the Council in its function of reviewing and appraising the environmental impact of all Federal activities. The relationship of the two bodies. in fact. is indicated in the bill by the requirement that members of the Environmental Advisory Board be appointed from a list of candidates submitted by the Council on Environmental Quality. Furthermore. by confining its area of responsibility to the Corps of Engineers. the Board could be of considerable value in helping the Council on Environmental Quality develop its own expertise in this area. Many projects undertaken by the Corps of Engineers are of such a large scale that their effect on the environment is substantial. Surely. a large dam can make its presence felt over a wide area. just as can a series of locks on a major waterway or even a small watershed project. All of these activities by the corps have worthwhile and productive goals. but we must assure that they do not also produce undesirable side effects. The very scope of many corps projects makes this assurance essential. for they are prominent examples of Government activity that must prominently reflect Government concern for the environment. The Subcommittee on Flood Control. Rivers and Harbors of the Committee on Public Works. under the chairmanship of the distinguished Senator from Ohio
910272680|The Senator has 4 minutes remaining.
910272681|Mr. President. I yield to the Senator from Kentucky. or. if he desires. I will yield the floor.
910272682|Mr. President. will the Senator from Illinois yield to me?
910272683|I have yielded the floor.
910272684|Mr. President. I have 4 minutes remaining. I yield to the Senator and I am sure we could get further time if necessary.
910272685|Mr. President. I thank the Senator from West Virginia and the Presiding Officer for their generosity. The distinguished Senator from Illinois has stated well the purpose of the bill which he has introduced. and in which the Senator from West Virginia and I have joined. I think it is fortunate that the Senator from West Virginia . chairman of the Committee on Public Works. is a sponsor of the bill. As the ranking Republican member of the committee. I wanted to join in sponsoring the bill so that our committee in a bipartisan way. could study this bill and explore the very important issues it raises. In the last 5 years the Committee on Public Works has engaged in the consideration of many problems about which very little was known throughout the country. We held hearings and Senate bills have been passed dealing with air pollution control. water pollution control. control of oil spillage. and on solid waste management. In connection with the Federal highway system we have dealt with comprehensive bills to give greater protection to the environment and the ecology from the intrusion of even necessary highways. Now. through bills like that introduced by the Senator from Illinois . we could begin to place more emphasis on the Corps of Engineers activities and the necessary protection of the environment which should accompany those activities. We owe much to the Corps of Engineers. In my State. the Corps of Engineers has reconstructed locks and dams on the Ohio River and made it the greatest artery of water traffic in the world. The corps activities involve water quality and storage. they have given us flood protection to save the lives of people. Now. we believe it is important to look ahead. In many instances it may be too late. We think it important that we begin to study the enactment of necessary legislation to protect as best we can the environment and ecology in our river valleys. Mr. President. I wish to pay tribute to our colleague from Illinois for his thoughtfulness and initiative In introducing this legislation. I assure him that in the Committee on Public Works the Senator from West Virginia . and I. as well as others. will give this matter our fullest attention. I thank the Senator.
910272686|Mr. President. will the Senator yield?
910272687|I yield.
910272688|Mr. President. I wish to express my deep appreciation for the comments that have been made this afternoon by my distinguished colleagues. I have had a great deal of respect for the work they have done in the Committee on Public Works. I do not think many Members of this body fully appreciate the amount of time and attention it takes to consider these projects all over the country. The time and attention required should not be underestimated. I have been constantly amazed. as I have testified before the committee. at the depth of the understanding the committee members have of the projects. I know they themselves have been deeply concerned about the environmental protection. I think the solution we have arrived at today via the legislative process will strengthen the credibility and enhance the reputation. which is already high. of the constructive work the corps has done. It will provide both a visibility and a mechanism whereby we can provide adequate funds and thought to each undertaking in evaluating the effect it promises upon the environment and upon society. I thank my distinguished colleague once again.
910272689|What is the pleasure of the Senate?
910272690|Pursuant to the previous order. the Senate will now proceed to a period for the transaction of routine morning business. with statements therein not to exceed 3 minutes.
910272691|Mr. President. at the request of the able Senator from Wisconsin . I ask unanimous consent to insert in the RECORD a statement by Mr. PROXMIRE on the ProxmireNelsonHughes draft amendment.
910272692|Mr. President. from the Committee on Public Works I report favorably the bill S. 3619. the Disaster Assistance Act of 1970. with an amendment. In accordance with the agreement of the chairmen of -the Public Works and the Banking and Currency Committees after the bill was ordered reported from the Public Works Conunittee on August 12. it was referred to the Banking Committee for review. comments and possible amendment. The Banking Committee on August 25 considered the bill and suggested certain changes which have been incorporated in the bill as reported. I ask unanimous consent that the individual views of the Senator from Kansas be printed together with the report.
910272693|The report will be received and the bill will be placed on the calendar. and. without objection. the report will be printed. as requested by the Senator from Indiana.
910272694|Mr. President. today I am proposing three changes in the administrations family assistance proposal. included in five amendments to that bill. and one amendment to the Social Security Act a bill that would make it easier for welfare recipients to accept work. Without objection I request that at this point my statement before the Senate Finance Committee. and the bill and amendments be printed in the RECORD.
910272695|"(Mr. CooK). The bill will be received and appropriately referred. and. without objection. the bill will be printed in the RECORD. and the amendments will be received and printed. and will be appropriately referred. and. without objection. the amendments and statement will be printed in the RECORD. The bill to amend section 402 (a) (10) of the Social Security Act. introduced by Mr. MCGOVERN. was received. read twice by its title. referred to the Committee on Finance. and ordered to be printed in the RECORD. as follows: S. 4304 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled. That section 402(a) (10) of the Social Security Act is amended(1) by inserting ""(A)"" immediately after ""(10)"" . (2) by inserting at the end thereof the following: ""(B) provide that. effective April 1. 1971. whenever any family whose eligibility for such aid is terminated by reason of the acceptance of employment by any member thereof. such family may (within one year after such eligibility was so terminated). by filing a simple sworn declaration as to pertinent factual information. immediately reestablish Its eligibility for such aid."". The amendments (Nos. 870 through 874). submitted by Mr. McGoVERN. were referred to the Committee on Finance. and ordered to be printed in the RECORD. as follows:"
