speech_id|speech
660149108|Mr. Speaker. inay I ask how much time I have remaining?
660149109|Fifteen minutes have been used on each side.
660149110|I yield five minutes to the gentleman from Wisconsin [M)r. KLECZXA].
660149111|"Mr. Speaker. I can not accept the logic of the gentlemn from Illinois that by refusing to seat Victor Berger the House will disfranchise those who voted for him. The Constitution of the United States provides what the qualifications of Members of this House must be. The di.% qualification and ineligibility of Berger was known to every voter of his district. It was proclaimed through the press. from the public platform. from the billboards. through the mail. and through every means of advertising and every agency of knowledge communication. Everyone voting in that election knew what the issue was. And yet. with a full knowledge of Bergers disqualification and a keen appreciation of the results of that disqualification. they defiantly and contumaciously cast their votes for Victor Berger. The Supreme Court of Wisconsin declared that a vote cast for a candidate known to be disqualified is null and void. When they cast their votes for Victor Berger. whoi they knew to be ineligible. they were awvare of the fact that their votes were null and void. They. therefore. disfranchised themselves by their voluntary and defiant action. Are we going to listen to the voice of those who defied the Constitution and. held in scorn and contempt the laws of the land? Are we going to place a premium .on deflane of law and order? Are we to give more weight to the rebellious and defiant action of those who by their votes approved Bergers seditious statements and treacherous conduct than we are to the judgment and decrees of the supreme .court of a sovereign State? The precedent cited by the gentlenan from Texas disposes of the contention that the proposed action of the. House is unprecedented. Even if there was no precedent for the action contemplated by the pending resolution. surely the present is a most opportune time and the facts in this case most compelling to create a precedent. This House. oil the 10th day of November last. pronounced its solemn judgment of Bergers disqualification and ineligibility. The Elections Committee. after a full. exhaustive. and deliberative hearing. found Victor Berger guilty of giving aid and comfqrt to the enemy of the United States. Courageously and with a due regard for the oath which eyery Member of this House took to support the Constitution of the United States. this House sustained the findings of that committee and excluded Berger from membership. Is Berger less guilty today than lie was on November 10? Because this House patriotically and faithfully upheld the organic law of the land and the honor of. this House. Victor Berger brands the Members of this body as corrupt and servile agents of the capitalists. The spectacle of November 10 last is still clear in every Members minds eye. Accorded the privilege of this floor. he heaped abuse upon organized government and constituted authority. he burled defiance at law and order and insulted the membership of this House. To what extremes 1920. JANUoARY 10. must the Constitution be reviled and this House insulted before we call a halt? Berger knew when he again became a candi(late that he.could not be seated in this*House. He only added insult to the injury which lie has done to the country. By his action he has thrown down the gauntlet to this House. In the natie of the heroes living. in the name of that splendid band of militant Americans who are members of the American Legi6n and whom Berger with scornful hate calls ""the catspaws of the (capitalists."" in the name of the martyred dead who sleep ih the fields of Flanders and France we will accept that challenge. Nothing has transpired between the day that Berger was excluded and this day that would warrant any modification or reversal of the judgment of this body. His conduct and his utterances since that day have but furnished additional. evidence that fortifies and strengthens the verdict of this House. Since his expulsion le has declared on every public occasion that te would repeat his treasonable statements and actions. only lie would make them "" much stronger."" Since his expulsion he has but grown more rebellious anId more defiant of governmental authority. He publicly and repeatedly declared that ""if the fifth- congressional district of Wisconsin elected a horse thief or a polygamist as its representative."" it was of no concern to this House. and that this body would be compelled to seat such an elected representative. That is Victor Bergers conception of representative governnient. But these declarations are in harmony with his perverted philosophy. He has never said one commendable thing about this land of freedom and opportunity. le never saw anything noble in American institutions and in American ideals. lie prates about constitutional rights and in the same breath condemns and reviles the Constitution as "" a scrap of paper."" Who ever heard of a man duly convicted after a full and fair hearing. going about the country and condemning and reviling the tribunal that passed the judgment of conviction. and then appearing before that same tribunal which lie villified. and obtained another hearing of his case? To grant another hearing to this man would be to impugn the patriotism and question the judgment of this House. so solemnly pronounced in this case on November 10 last. To seat this inan would be to condone and approve his treasonable conduct and seditious declarations. it would mean that this House has compromised with disloyalty and sedition. 13y unanmious consent. Mr. SHERWOOD. Mr. I.LKLECZKA. and Mr. GRIFFIN had leave to extend their remarks in the REcO)."
660149112|Mr. Speaker. I yield live minutes to the gentleman from Wisconsin [Mr. VoirT].
660149113|Mr. Speaker and gentlemen of the 1ouse. I was the only Member who voted to seat Mr. Berger when this matter was up before. and my views are already in the REcorDn. I desire to say now that I am more firmly convinced than ever that Mr. Berger is entitled to his seat. It seems to me highly unfair to jump on Mr. Berger. who is here helpless and alone. He is called a traitor to his face and he is denied the opportunity to speak in his own defense. Judge Landis. who decided judicially that lie was not prejudiced against Mr. Berger. is reported by the Chicago Tribune to have said that he was sorry the law did not permit him to order Victor Berger stood against a wall and shot. Mr. Berger. in my judgment. is a highminded and honoralble gentleman. You may laugh and scoff. gentlemen. but I know Victor Berger. No man can devote his whole life and fortune to the great cause of endeavoring to better the condition of the toiling millions. stand by his principles like a rock of Gibraltar. regardless of personal consequences. without being morally great. I do not agree with Mr. Berger politically. I do not agree with his economic theories. but I hope that I am big enough to recognize the purity of his character and motives. Victor Bergers name will stand in the future as that of a martyr to a great causethe rights of free speech. free press. nd representative government. History has always justified .iuch men and history will justify Victor Berger. The people of his district. who know him best. have already justified -him. Tlhey have spoken in no uncertain tones. and the old maxim is that thevoice of the people is the supreme law. You may say that Victor Berger is a traitor. but if you do. you have got to .say that there are 25.000 traitors in the fifth district of Wisconsin. A MEMBER There are. Mir. VOI(T. There are not. The people of the fifth district of Wisconsin are just as loyal tin( just as patriotic as the people of my district in this country. They may have different views fromn the lople in other districts as to what const mitutes patriotismi in a given situation. and they are entitled to their views. You c(n look up the war activities of that district and you will find less lawbreaking than in probably 99 per cent of the districts of the country. You will find that they responded to every call of the Government.
660149114|Will the gentleman yield?
660149115|According to that theory. if that is the test to be applied. I call the gentlemans attention to the fact that Judas Iscariot was treasurer of the Twelve Apostles up to the time lie committed the one offense.
660149116|That was a long time ago. Mr. Berger. as I understand it. is what is known as a mild socialist. You may laugh again and laugh some more. Mr. Berger is called by the socialists of this country a mild socialist. no matter what you may think about it. The socialists of this country know more about socialism than the Members of this Ilouse. Mr. Berger was threatened with ejection and abused at a convention of the Socialist Party in Chicago lastSeptember because lie would not stand for any radical doctrines. The men who opposed him there. and who withdrew to form a party of their own. knew what Victor Berger stood for.
660149117|Will the gentleman yield?
660149118|No. I can not yield. Mr. Berger lbs at no time advocated a violation of law. It is charged here that he stands for revolution. Why. gentlemen. wheni Mr. Berger talks about revolution lie mealls a peaceable. economic revolution. he does not refer to force. You must give Mr. Berger credit for having time and again in his paper. The Milwaukee Leader. advocated compliance with the law. You evidently do not give him credit for that. but it is a fact that ie has said tine and again that any changes. economically or politically. which lie advocates nst be brought about peacea.bly. through the ballot box. The Constitution of this country guarantees Ai-. Berger the right of free speech. If that means anything it means that he should have the right to explain his position on the ecouoinic and political questions facing the people of this country. It is said that ie is opposed to war. I grant him the right to be opposed to war. as much as I grant the right to a man to favor war. If a man does not believe in war lie has the absolute right to express his views. I am not afraid that this country is going to the dogs because Mr. Berger or any other mani expresses his opinions. Not only is lie entitled to be heard. but the people are entitled to hear him. If you are going to bottleup every man who has something to say which is out of harmiony with regular doctrine. the intellectual worl must come to a standstill. I have implicit faith in the good sense of the American people. If they find anything good in Mr. Bergers message theyhave a right to accept it. if not they will reject it.
660149119|Will the gentleman yield? i[r. VOIGT. No. I can not yield. Let me say in conclusion you are not only doing an injustice il denying Mr. Berger a seat in this House. but you are playing exceedingly bad politics. You are making a million or two socialist votes by. your action. I prophesy that the next national election will show the folly of your course in evicting Mr. Berger from this House. Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent to extend my remarks in the RECORD.
660149120|I object.
660149121|The gentlemans objection is claracteristic of most of the House at present.
660149122|Mr. Speaker. a parliamentary inquiry. I do not know how many people object to Air. Berger being ieard.
660149123|I do. and I am going to continue to object.
660149124|I want to ask if it would be in order to make a motion to give Mr. Berger an opportunity to be heard. say. for 30 or 40 minutes?
660149125|He can be allowed time only by unannimouS consent. not being a Member of the House.
660149126|And I object. Mr. Speaker.
660149127|Mr. Speaker. I desire to submit another parlinientary inquiry. Does Air. Berger occupy the same position and status as a man would wh.o is having a contest over his election ?
660149128|Mir. Speaker. I demand the regular order.
660149129|Mr. Speaker. I demand the regular order.
660149130|I want to.be heard upon the point of order. ThO SPEAKER. The gentleman will state his point of order.
660149131|Would he have the right-
660149132|The gentlelan has not stated any point or. order.
660149133|I make the point of order. Mr. Speaker. that Mr. Berger is entitled to be heard. I do not helieve that this House will put itself in the attitude before the country of not giving a mnii an opportunity to be heard. however anxious every Melber of the House might be to come to a vote.
660149134|Will the gentleman cite any precedent for a person who is not a Member of the House being heard. except by the unanimous consent of the House?
660149135|I am insisting that by motion-
660149136|Will tile gentleman cite any precedent?
660149137|I am not prepared to cite a precedent now.
660149138|The gentleman may take his time to look up a precedent. and if lie can find one the Chair will be very glad to hear hin. In the absence of a precedent. the Chair thinks that a person not aI Melber can only speak by unaninous consent.
660149139|Mr. Speaker. I yield five minutes to the gentlelan from Wyoling .
660149140|Mr. Speaker. I shall take but a moment. The only argunent that has been made on behalf of Mr. Bergers clail to a seat in tle House is that an election having been held in the iifth district of Wisconsin. and it having been chiined that Mir. Berger received t majority of the votes cast at tlat election. that fact is not only very persuasive but practieally compels favorable action on the l)art of the House in thematter of seating him. Unfortunately for the gentlemen wo minake that arguimient and for the argument it runs counter to the funnlalental law of the land. the Constitution of the United States. It runs counter to the oath that we have taken to lphold and defend the Constitution of the United States. Tie Constitution limits those who are eligible to thei honor of a seat il this House. It provides that they lmust be citizens. that tiley nust be above a certain age. and that they must possess certain qualifications. Section 3 of the fourteenth amendIlent to the Constitution provides: Sic. 3. No person shall le a Senator or Representative in Congress. or elector of President and Vice President. or hold any office. civil or military. Under the. United States. or under any State. who. having pireviously taken an oath as a Member of Congress or as an officer of the United States or as a mnber of any State legislature or as an executive or judicial officer of any State to support the Constitution of the United States. shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellion against the same or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof. This House. through one of its committees. has heretofore examined the record of Mr. Berger. That record was placed -before the House. That record as placed before the House aInd the argulents made in support of it satisfied every Member of this House then present. save one. that Victor Berger had been guilty of a violation of a law of the Union. that he had given aid and comfort to the enelnies of tie country. and that therefore he was not eligible to a seat in this House. It follows. therefore. that notwithstanding what any people nay have since done in his behalf. in an election or elsewhere. under the Constitution of the United States. under our oath to support that Constitution. in view of and consistent with the action we have heretofore taken. we call not seat him as a Member of this body.
660149141|Mr. Speaker. I yield one minute to the gentleman from Kansas .
660149142|Mr. Speaker. I simply ask unarninons consent to extend iy remarks in the ItEcoRin.
660149143|I object.
660149144|Objection is heard.
660149145|Mr. Speaker. in bringing this debate to a close. I simply want to cite one other illustration of the utter fallacy of the argunent of the gentlemlan from Illinois [Mr. MANNJ in regard to the right of a constituency to choose anyone they see fit and to have him seated by this House. Let us suppose that Mr. Berger was still an Austrian subject. According to the logic of the gentlemnan from Illinois. we would have to seat him. because the people of that district .chose to elect lhiml. Tie Constitution. however. expressly provides that no person shall be a Member of this Ilouse who shall not have attained to the age of 25 years. or who has not been a citizen for seven years. or-
660149146|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield?
660149147|I can not yield.
660149148|The gentleman ought not td falsify my statements.
660149149|Who wfas not a resident of the State at the time of his election. and the Constitution also says. as the: gentleilIn froli Wsyoming [Mr. M[ONI)ELL] has again pointed lnt. that no person who has previously taken an oath as a Member of Congress to support the Constitution of the United States. which Mr. Berger did in 1911. and who subsequently gave aid and comfort to its enelnies. shall be a Senator or Representative in Congress. This prohibition is in the Constitution. to support which every Member of this House has taken a solelnn oath. Mr. Speaker. there is no reason why any Member should change his vote. Mr. Berger is just as much unfit and ineligible to membership in this House today as he was on November 10. and I trust that the Melmbers of this House will be true to their oaths of office and vote for the adoption of this resolution. Mr. Speaker. I move the previous question.
660149150|The.question is on ordering the previous question on the adoption of the resolution. The previous question was ordered.
660149151|The question is on agreeing to the resolution.
660149152|And oil that I demand the yeas and nays.
660149153|Mr. Speaker. I desire to vote.
660149154|Was the gentleman present and listeninig wvhen his name was called?
660149155|Mr. Speaker. I just came out of a sick bed and I was entering the Hall when my name was called--
660149156|The Chair must ask the gentleman if he was present and listening when his name was called?
660149157|"I desire to vote "" aye."" but I had just walked in tile Hall when my name was called. and then the next name-"
660149158|Did the gentleman hear it called?
660149159|I just came in the door and it was too late to answer. but I was in the Hall.
660149160|Did the gentleman hear his nanle called?
660149161|Yes. sir. I just walked in the door. but I did not have an opportunity to cast my vote.
660149162|The Chair hardly thinks the gentleman qualities. The question is that the gentleman must answer affirmatively if he was present and listening when his nale was called.
660149163|I was not in time to vote. I was present and perhaps I do not qualify.
660149164|The gentleman was not in time to vote-
660149165|My name was called as I came in the door. and the next name-
660149166|The Chair fears the gentleman is not entitled to vote.
660149167|Mr. Speaker. tle gentleman suggests that he came in the door from the lobby and heard his name called. but he could not answer in time.
660149168|Why could not lie answer? The Chair could not hear why lie could not answer.
660149169|He says the next name was called following his. I do not think the Chair heard that. The next name after his was called.
660149170|I could not afford to shout my name when was coming in the door.
660149171|If he did not answer then. he can not answer now.
660149172|Mr. Speaker. it is a matter of little importance. I did not care to pull off a Wild West stunt out there at the door. and so I do not think I am qualified. It is aIll right.
660149173|The principal question is if a man is here in the House and refused to answer when his name was called twice. can lie then comie up and vote?
660149174|"I would have voted ""yea "" had I been in the Hall."
660149175|The Chair does not think the gentleman qualifies.
660149176|"Mr. Speaker. my colleagues from New Jersey. Mr. BACT ARACH and Mr. BROWNING. are unavoidably absent. They request me to say that if they were present they would vote "" yea."" The result of the vote was announced as above recorded."
660149177|"Mr. Speaker. I want to announce the unavoidable absence of my colleague. Mr. CALDWELL. and that if he were present lie would vote "" yea."""
660149178|Mr. Speaker. I am requested by my colleague.
660149179|"who is unavoidably absent on account of illness in his family. to say that if he were here he would vote ""yea."""
660149180|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanilmous consent that the gentleman from Wisconsin. Mr. VOIGT. now have leave to revise and extend his remarks in the RECORD.
660149181|The gentleman from North Carolina asks unanimous consent that the gentleman from Wisconsin. Mr. VOICT. may have leave to revise and extend his remarks in the RECORD. Is there objection?
660149182|Reserving the right to object-
660149183|Mr. Speaker. I ask for the regular order.
660149184|The gentleman could print the speech of Mr. Berger under it. and I object.
660149185|"Mr. Speaker. my colleague. Mr. HARRISON. is absent on account of illness. I am authorized to say that if he were here lie would vote ""yea"" on the resolution which has just been adopted."
660149186|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent that my colleague. Mr. RHODES. who is ill and was unable to be here yesterday or today. may be excused. and to state that if he were here he would have voted for the resolution.
660149187|The gentleman from Missouri asks unanimous consent that the gentleman from Missouri. Mr. RHODES. may be excused from attendance on yesterday and today on account of illness. Is there objection? The Chair hears none.
660149188|Mr. Speaker. iu colleague. Mr. NICHOLS Of Michigan. is detained in Detroit on account of illness. and I am authorized to say that if he were present he would have voted in the affirmative on this resolution.
660149189|Mr. Speaker. I ask leave to extend my remarks on the Berger matter. and to say that if leave is granted I shall extend only my own remarks.
660149190|The gentleman asks unanimous consent to extend his remarks in the RECORD. Is there objection?
660149191|I object. On motion of Mr. DALLINGER. a motion to reconsider the vote by which the resolution was agreed to was laid on the table.
660149192|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Agriculture have leave to sit during the sessions of the House.
660149193|The gentleman from Iowa asks unanimous consent that the Committee on Agriculture have leave to sit during the sessions of the House. Is there objection? Ti.e Chair hears none.
660149194|Mr. Speaker. I move that the House resolve itself into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of the Post Office appropriation bill.
660149195|The gentleman from Minnesota moves that the House resolve itself into Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of the bill H. I. 11578. the Post Office appropriation bill. The question is oil agreeing to that motion.
660149196|The gentleman from Massachusetts will please take the chair. Thereupon the committee resolved itself into Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of the bill H. R. 11578. the Post Office appropriation bill. with Mr. WALSH in the chair.
660149197|The House is in Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of the bill H. It. 11578. which the Clerk will report by title.
660149198|When the committee adjourned last evening the gentleman from Minnesota had consumed 53 minutes. The gentleman from Alabama has 90 minutes.
660149199|Mr. Chairman. the gentleman from Alabama has asked me to take charge of the time in his temporary absence. and I yield 10 minutes to the gentleman from Arkansas .
660149200|Mr. Chairman and gentlemen of the committee.I shall not detain you long. The postal employees have made the handling of the mails the one activity of the Government that all will concede has rivaled any achievement of private business. Yet I think the postal employees are the worst paid of any employees of the Government. I am speaking now only of the conditions that exist in my own section of the country. because I am not familiar with them in other sections. Almost every day brings to the department the resignation of a postmaster or a rural carrier or a city letter carrier from my .istrict. and to show you how little competition there is for these places. I havenow upon my desk three or four cases of longestablished post offices where the department is unable to procure -a postinaster at all. Recently it appeared that all office paying between $800 and $1.000 would have to be abolished because there was nobody who would accept the position. This is the seventh year in which I have served as a Member of Congress. anfd in all that time there has not been in my district a single contest for the appointment of a rural carrier. There has never been more than one man wanting the same job. and. nearly every mail brings a resignation. The work is hard. the roads are not overly good. and therefore at the present rate of compensation it is almost imnoeible to keel) carriers at all.. Going back again .to fourthclass postmasters. it is almost imnpossible in some communities to get anyone to serve. Under thq present arrangement. when they must pay rent and for light and fuel and are allowed practically nothing for clerk hire. it is almost. if not quite. impossible to have some communities served at all. and many men are now serving as postmasters who want to quit if somebody can be found to take their places. This is especially true of sone of the communities where fourthclass post offices are compelled to act ascentral accounting offices. Men handling more funds and being responsible for more supplies of money value than the cashier of an ordinary bank are inaking net salaries sometimes of less than $40 a month. We cail not maintain the service at its present high standard unless some change is made. In my particular section of the State we have a very few starroute carriers. but in other sections of the State men have gone into bankruptcy trying to fulfill contracts entered into with the Government when conditions were wholly different. I had a letter yesterday from a man who has a contract to carry the mail. He has lived up to it so far. but in order to do that at all lie has been compelled to mortgage the house in which lie lives to raise a suhlicient fund to fulfill tile contract which he entered into with the Government. This class of postal employeesthe fourthclass postmasters. the central accounting offices. and rural carriers. and the starroute carriersought to be taken care of more generously than they are in this bill. or have been in the past. Ordinarily I an not an advocate of raising everybodys salary. I have not been at all filled with that enthusiasm over raising the salaries of generals of the Army or admirals of the Navy that so agitated sone Members on the floor of the House. I have not been in sympathy with the propaganda that if you do not raise the pay of these high Army officers imnmediately they will resign and that the service would become demoralized. I think the man who owes everything to his country for his education and then threatens to quit unless you raise his pay immediately might quit the service for the benefit of the service. But I do know that these postal employees who labor under these disadvantages I have been telling you about are entitled to .some kind of an increase. Take a rural carrier who goes out of my town. who has 29 and some odd niles of muddy reads to travel six days iu the week and has to pay for the upkeep of his team and conveyance as all do. There is not a man living that would take that contract if it were not for the fact that it is a Government contract. but because he is willing to serve his Government lie ought not to be penalized. lie ought to be paid a living wage. His is not an isolated case. all or nearly all are similarly situated. Wlien these sections of the bill are reached. dealing with this class of employees. I hope that something may he done that will make their services rendered to the Government not performed at an actual loss. They are entitled to live and rear their families in comfort. If I am not mistaken. and I do not believe I am. there is not a rural carrier serving in my State now under present conditions whose salary is not more than half consumed by the cost of the equipage with which he serves the Government. Itstrikes me that it is as unanswerable to require him to furnish a buggy and a horse or two horses or a car in order to deliver the mail on a rural route as it would be to require the postal clerk to own the car that transports the mail on the railroad. The rural carrier is serving the public. and he ought to have the equipment with which lie serves the public furnished him. I hope some provision will be made to take care of that situation in the bill. I have often heretofore called attention to the inadequate pay of postal employees. I am pleased to note from year to year some advances in pay have been granted. May we not now cease to discharge this debt we owe them on the installment plan. Let us pay it at once by giving to all these patriotic and loyal postal employees a living wage. They deserve it. we should (1o it. The reason for not doing full justice to them in this measure is that we wait on the joint committees report. We know what that committee ought to report. Why not anticipate it and bring relief to these longsuffering employees now? For one I am in favor of doing it.
660149201|Mr. Chairman. I yield five minutes to the gentlemuan from Texas .
660149202|Mr. Chairman. we have now before the Sixtysixth Congress for consideration the second regular supply measure to take care of the needs of our Government. Our great majority party on the floor of the House having charge of this great legislation has present exactly 13 Members.
660149203|Will the gentleman yield?
660149204|Not now. If the gentleman wants to correct ile I will yield.
660149205|I want to call the gentlemans attention to the fact that his party has 10 Members present and 2 boys.
660149206|Yes. and of the 10. 6 are Texans. and there is also the gentleman from Tennessee. the gentleman from Alabana. and the gentleman from New York. But there aire exactly 13 majority Members present of the great party which has made so many promises to the people ab6nt taking care of the interests of the people. now on time floor for the consideration of the second great supply bill. The people are finding out that you are not here. just like they will find out that there are 13 of the majority here now. M.r. BLACK. Will the gentleman yield?
660149207|No. I can not yield now. Yes. I will yield to my colleague.
660149208|I want to ask the gentleman if it is not his intention to go to his office as soon as lie gets through with his speech.
660149209|I will answer specifically that it is not.
660149210|The gentleman said that he wanted -to occupy his time now because he wanted to go to his office.
660149211|No. I said I wanted to fill two efngagements with two constituents.
660149212|Yes. but I understood that was to be in the gentlemans office.
660149213|No . because my constituents are waiting for me out in the hall.
660149214|Well. with that iodification. it is all right.
660149215|My colleague knows that I am here all the time when business is being transacted. except when my constituents call me out. and then I am out only a few minutes.
660149216|Will the gentleman yield?.
660149217|I can not yield now. I want to state what I intended to say-. The people of this country tire not going to stand for this kind of representation by the Republican Party. and if you Republican colleagues of mine expect to remain in charge of the business of this country you had better stay here and take care of the business. because the people will find out that you are not here. Now. I want to say that thie same emergency conditions that exist in the district of my colleague exist in mine. One of the greatest oil fields in the United States is in my district and the district of my colleague . What is known as the Big Ranger oil fields is iii my district. There is one well there which has flowed as much as 12.600 barrels a day in my district. For over six months I have been calling the attention of the House to the abnormal conditions that exist there calling for iinediate remedial legislation. I called the attention of my colleague . who is a member of the Post Office Committee. to that fact. He promised me that when the bill was brought in lie was going to take care of these conditions. and I am glad to say that lie has taken care of them. and I think after the passage of this bill these good people who have suffered so many inconveniences. some having had their mail sent to another place 30 miles distant ill order to get it. will no longer have to do so.
