speech_id|speech
1060155421|"Mr. Speaker. we have recently voted to establish permanent normal trade relations with China. which I believe will provide economic opportunities for us and further advance reforms that will promote democratization and hopefully improve human rights in that region. China recently negotiated to become a member of the World Trade Organization. a union of 135 nations who will require China to follow established trade rules. China has agreed to lower tariffs and duties on many products imported from foreign countries including the United States. These lowered tariffs will increase American exports. expand opportunities for our businesses. and create new jobs. If we had not granted permanent normal trade relations with China. we would have lost these economic benefits to other countries that would trade with China. Increased trade with China will create new jobs and stimulate the economy in my district. Lowered tariffs will apply to Californias Central Valley agricultural products. such as almonds. oranges. grapes. and cotton. In a few years. China will reduce its tariff on almonds from 30 to 10 percent. on oranges from 40 to 12 percent. and on grapes from 40 to 13 percent. China will also import millions of additional tons of cotton at a low duty. These lowered tariffs and duties will lead to lower prices for Chinese citizens who will demand more products. necessitating increased production in the Valley. New agricultural jobs will support this increased production. We are already reaping abundant benefits from trade with other countries. Since July of 1999. Kern County alone has shipped over 220.000 tons of cotton to Mexico. Production. transportation. and marketing of cotton for Mexico have generated numerous jobs in the Central Valley. Because Chinas population is significantly greater than that in the other countries with whom we trade. the amount of products we will export there will also be significantly greater. Not only will increased trade benefit our economy. but it will also help further the expansion of freedoms in China. In any nation. this process take times. Our own nations history attests to this fact. The rights guaranteed in our Constitution have not always been granted to everyone. For example. slavery. with all of its abuses. we practiced for 78 years after the ratification of the Constitution. Eightythree years after the Constitution. the Fifteenth Amendment theoretically granted suffrage to all people. regardless of ""race. color. or previous condition of servitude."" but these rights continued to be denied to people of color. Our country progressed over time to expand and guarantee equal protection of rights under the law. Just as the expansion of freedoms has progressed over time throughout the history of the United States. so it will take time for China to extend more freedoms to its citizens. China is just starting the process we have been pursuing for over two centuries. and they are in a different situation than was the United States at its foundation. Chinese leaders do not regard the individual as. in the words of our Declaration of Independence. ""endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights."" Their government does not derive its ""just Power from the Consent of the Governed."" The Chinese have still to develop a real understanding of the value of the individual. Communist Party control over the financial future of Chinese citizens is weakening. Millions of people are migrating away from stateowned enterprises to work in private businesses. At these businesses. they experience improved working conditions and higher wages. They are less dependent on the government. can make their own choices. and thereby have more personal control over their lives. As this movement into the private sector continues. more people will come to expect and demand the reforms necessary to guarantee individual rights. Exposure to international trade rules will enable the Chinese to appreciate establishing rule of law within their country. Increased trade with all nations will acquaint Chinese citizens with innovation and new technology from sources outside their government. These ideas will increase their awareness of the rights and freedoms to which they are entitled. Chinese citizens may in time pressure their leaders for reforms that will guarantee these rights and freedoms. Our trade relations will allow us to support the Chinese people if they choose to push for these reforms. For all of these reasons. I am pleased that the House has voted for permanent normal trade relations with China. The bill is now in the Senate. where I am hopeful it will pass so that the United States and China together can secure the benefits of a more open trade relationship."
1060155422|Mr. Speaker. I rise before you today to commend Matt Linwong. a freshman at Mt. Vernon Township High School in Mt. Vernon. IL. for his academic achievement. He recently scored a perfect 800 in English on the SAT and a near perfect 750 in math. As a result. Matt has been accepted to the Illinois Math and Science Academy in Aurora. IL. which is a school for 10th12th grade Illinois students who excel in mathematics and science. I want to wish Matt the best as he begins this new chapter in his life. He is an amazing young student who I know will go far and do great things.
1060155423|Mr. Chairman. I rise today to urge my colleagues to vote to move this bill forward but also to express my concerns about what I consider to be seriously inadequate funding levels for education. health. and job training. Chairman JOHN PORTER did an admirable job constructing this bill considering the difficult 302(B) allocation he was given in the budget resolution. I opposed that resolution because it inadequately funded so many agencies. But as in years past. the Senate has more generous subcommittee allocations and therefore will fund many programs at higher levels than the House. Furthermore. the President has consistently advocated higher spending levels. though he has funded them through unacceptable taxes and cuts in key programs that members of both parties reject. Hence. as this bill moves through the process of Senate consideration and then the HouseSenate conference. allocation levels will rise to what I believe will be sound funding levels appropriately funded. Therefore I vote in favor of this bill to move it forward in the process. I would note that last years House LaborHHS proposal provided only $35.6 billion for education programs while the President proposed a total of $37.1 billion. Ultimately. the process produced a bill that provided $38 billion for education and tied to that level of funding was greater flexibility so communities could meet their own needs. I have no doubt the same result will occur again this year which is why I am willing to put aside my concerns with this specific bill and move this legislation forward. H.R. 4577 provides funding increases for a number of programs of importance. including many health initiatives. I am very proud that Chairman PORTER has targeted community health centers for support as these facilities are the only source of affordable health care in many neighborhoods. Helping people se-
1060155424|Mr. Chairman. I move to strike the last word and rise to support this amendment that helps provide for our states and local communities. While I support all the funding increases in this amendment. the increase in the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program is of particular interest. Last year. we approved an amendment to increase PILT by twenty million dollars and came out of conference with a ten million dollar increase. This amendment will add ten million dollars to last years appropriation. the base amount in this legislation. The federal government has a responsibility in law to help support local governments in areas where the federal government owns the land. thus removing it from the local tax base. We all know. despite the hard work and tough decisions of Chairman REGULAS subcommittee. that appropriations for PILT have not kept up with the authorized amounts. An increase of ten million dollars will not close this gap. but it will provide muchneeded assistance to local governments. For the residents and government of Edmonson County in my district in Kentucky. the support from PILT is essential. Edmonson County is home to Mammoth Cave National Park. While the park draws many visitors to this rural area. Edmonson Countys small population and low per capita income make it difficult for local taxpayers to provide basic services. from waste management to emergency services. The support from an increase in PILT will keep the cost of these services more bearable to local taxpayers. PILT funds help support a 24hour ambulance service for the National Park and county residents. Federal land ownership has contributed to the isolation of much of Edmonson County. When major transportation routes expanded in the past. the county was bypassed in favor of areas with a larger property tax base to support the projects. Equitable PILT payments are needed to add to the tax base Edmonson County has given up for the National Park as the area faces new challenges for economic development. The situation faced by Edmonson County is far from unique. As the federal government continues to place responsibilities on local governments. PILT increases are necessary to relieve local taxpayers across the country. most of them in rural areas. The Bureau of Land Management reports property taxes would provide local governments with one dollar and fortyeight cents per acre. PILT payments are far below that amount per acre. It is difficult to explain to constituents why PILT appropriations have not followed the amounts authorized when they have not even come close. It is difficult to explain why Congress creates new programs when we are not funding the ones already in existence. I strongly urge my colleagues to support this amendment. By doing so you add $10 million dollars to PILT to aid local taxpayers in rural areas and fulfill a pledge made by the federal government.
1060155425|Mr. Speaker. today I commend the Womens Lightweight Eight Crew of T.C. Williams High School in Alexandria. VA. for their fine season this spring. The T.C. lightweight crew captured gold medals at the Virginia State Championships. the prestigious Stotesbury Cup Regatta in Philadelphia. and the Scholastic Rowing Association of America championship. They followed these triumphs with a silver medal at the Canadian Secondary Rowing Association Championship at St. Catherines. Ontario. Their success this year continues a tradition of strong lightweight rowing at T.C. Williams High School. The Womens Eight has captured gold medals at Stotesbury and the Scholastic Rowing Association for three of the last four years. This lightweight crew excels not only athletically but in their academic work as well. The crew has a collective grade point average that is close to 4.0. Crew members are: Jo Beck. Mary Higgins. Carter Kidd. Riley McDonald. Janie Roden. Kaitlin Donley. Catherine Freeman. Anna Gullickson. and Clare McIntyre. The coach of the Womens Lightweight Eight. Steve Weir. completed his 25th year coaching women at T.C. Steve has had unparalleled success. winning the Stotesbury Cup for lightweights 12 out of 18 attempts. Parents of the girls who row for Steve say that he has had a major impact on their lives both athletically and in other aspects through the example of his integrity and devotion to excellence. I am very proud of Steve Weir and his fine crew.
1060155426|"Mr. Speaker. I rise to acknowledge Naomi Grays contributions to the Citizens Advisory Commission to the Golden Gate National Recreation Area and Point Reyes National Seashore as she steps down after nearly six years of service. Ms. Gray has been a consistent leader in the fight to make our National Parks a treasure for all of our citizens. Throughout her entire illustrious career. she has sought to make our world more just. and it is my honor to commend this dedicated San Franciscan. Naomi Gray served as one of the original members of the Board of Directors of the Fort Mason Foundation. which oversees one of the first urban National Parks in the country. On the Board. Naomi consistently worked to ensure that the Center offered programs and services of interest to persons from a wide variety of cultural backgrounds. Because of her outstanding service at the Forest Mason Foundation and her years of dedicated community activism. Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt selected Naomi in 1994 to sit on the Citizens Advisory Commission to the Golden Gate National Recreation Area and Point Reyes National Seashore. On this commission. she served as chair of the Diversity Committee and as a member of the Presidio Committee. She brought to the Commission a concern for how our National Parks are perceived and how they can be made more welcoming to minority communities. Her work helped to open the Golden Gate National Recreation Area to all of our citizens. Naomis work on the Citizens Advisory Commission is just one of her many activities in public service. She has worked much of her life to advance the cause of public health. After serving as the Director of Field Services for the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. she became the first women VicePresident of the organization. With Planned Parenthood. she coordinated the work of more than 250 family planning affiliates in the United States and consulted with many international family planning programs. In 1985. San Francisco established its first Health Commission. and Naomi was selected as a founding member. Naomi became a VicePresident of the Commission. chaired its Budget Committee. and worked to strengthen and improve the Department of Public Healths Affirmative Action programs. Her service was so exemplary that. upon her retirement from the Commission. Mayor Frank Jordan was moved to declare October 8. 1992. as ""Naomi Gray Day"" in San Francisco. Ms. Gray has also dedicated her significant talent and energy to working on issues of importance to the AfricanAmerican community. In 1991 she helped establish the Sojourner Truth Foster Family Service Agency to care for AfricanAmerican foster children and later founded the Urban Institute for AfricanAmerican Affairs. She is the founder of the Black Coalition on AIDS. a member of the Black Chamber of Commerce. a member and past President of the San Francisco Black Leadership Forum. and has served on San Franciscos AfricanAmerican Child Task Force. Mr. Speaker. Naomi Grays thoughtful contributions to the Citizens Advisory Commission will be sorely missed. Undoubtedly. however. she will continue her work on behalf of the people of San Francisco in a new forum and with renewed energy. She is a tireless fighter. and our City is fortunate to have her. I wish her all of the best."
1060155427|Mr. Speaker. I rise before you today to commend Nadia Shakoor of Springfield. IL for being selected as a finalist in the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair. She was one of 1.200 students from over 40 countries who traveled to Detroit. MI to compete for more than $2 million in awards and scholarships. As a teacher myself. I want to recognize Nadia for her academic achievement. Her success has not come without hard work though. I applaud her for her motivation and desire to learn and grow. I wish Nadia the best as she continues her education. I know success will follow her wherever she may go.
1060155428|Mr. Chairman. I submit the following resolutions for the RECORD. Whereas. our National Forests were established in the 1920s for multiple use including soil and water protection. recreation. and timber production. and. Whereas. harvesting is an integral component of multipleuse management of forest lands. and. Whereas. it is not in the best interest of sustainable ecosystem management to ban commercial logging on National Forests. and. Whereas. the health of adjoining private and other public forest lands would be in jeopardy if National Forest lands were allowed to become overstocked and subject to insect and disease infestations. and unnecessary fuel buildup were allowed to create the potential for disastrous wild fires. and. Whereas. timber harvested on the National Forests is vital to many local and regional economies. including that of Vilas County. and. Whereas. Whereas. Wisconsins National Forests are not producing below cost timber sales and are not virgin forests. and. Whereas. there would be an increase in pressure to harvest County Forest Lands and private lands in the area if harvesting ceases on the National Forests within the state. and. Whereas. the State Forester of Wisconsin Is also opposed to the halting of commercial logging un National Forests. Now. therefore. be it resolved. That the Vilas County Board of Supervisors is opposed to the National Forest Restoration Act and other legislative proposals which propose halting commercial logging on the National Forests. Be it further resolved. That copies of this resolution be forwarded to the Governor. to Wisconsins Representatives and Senators in the United States Congress. George Meyer. Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources. Gene Francisco. State Forester. the Wisconsin County Forests Association. and the President of the United States. Respectfully submitted by: Vilas County Forestry. Recreation. & Land Committee.
