speech_id|speech
960301007|"Mr. Speaker. the Carter administration has apparently decided to throw caution to the wind and engage in one of the most deadly games ever played in election year politics. It is a desperate attempt to win the political prize at the risk of giving away the national security in the process. President Carter has forced into his lineup of surrogate speakers. to defend his indefensible record. a group of individuals who have no business on the campaign trail. Among them. Secretary of State Muskie. Ambassador to the Peoples Republic of China Woodstock. Secretary of Defense Brown. and National Security Adviser Brzezinski. Apparently. President Carter does not distinguish between partisan politics and the functions of Government. To him they are one and the same. even when our national security and our foreign alliances are on the line. To him government exists to serve his political ends. when for centuries we have always insisted that politics should serve the ends of government. This is not a matter of Cabinet officers defending the record of their administration. This is a matter of Cabinet officers going full tilt into the fray. citing rumor as fact. distorting figures and using the respectability of Government. or whats left of it. as an expendable tool of the reelection campaign. however. and whenever it serves political purposes. A vivid example of this gross abuse of power was provided recently in a newspaper article written by someone who knows what he is talking about. former Defense Secretary Melvin Laird. Former Secretary Laird understood the sensitivity of his office and knew better than to play fast and loose with defense matters. for the sake of political gain. His comments appeared in the August 17 issue of the Washington Post and I insert the article ""Defense Secretaries Shouldnt Play Politics."" at this point in the RECORD:"
960301008|Mr. Speaker. I rise today in tribute to a dear friend. Dr. Wayne McCall. of Ocala. Fla. Wayne was a dedicated and intensely patriotic American. a strong supporter of youth athletics. and a devoted and energetic public servant. His recent death was a shock to his family and friends and all who knew him. As the State representative of district 32 in Florida. Wayne McCall was a fiscal conservative and a man who truly cared about his constituents and their needs. Dedicated and responsive. Wayne always urged his constituents who had a problem to pick up the phone and call him rather than send letters. A quietspoken man. Wayne truly listened when people spoke and in his careful and kind way gave assistance. On the political side. he was a strong supporter of the twoparty system and would annually sponsor a fundraiser at his lake camp in the Ocala National Forest to benefit local Democratic candidates. A family man and community booster. Wayne had seven sons who all participated in high school sports programs. He. himself. presided over the local booster club to raise funds for youth athletics. A dentist. Wayne was a member of the dental society. He also served as a director on the National Governors Board of College and Universities and served long and with distinction as a member of the board of regents. All of us who knew Waynethose of us who worked with him over the years. and the people of the 32d district who were recipients of his calm and responsive servicewill sorely miss him. We have lost a great friend and the community of Ocala has lost an outstanding public servant. On behalf of the Fourth Congressional District. and all who knew him. I offer our expression of deep sorrow and sympathy to Dr. McCalls family. He was my dear friend. I shall sorely miss his wise and devoted counsel. In remembrance. I have caused to be flown over the Capitol a flag in his honor.*
960301009|"Mr. Speaker. in this. the week before Labor Day. the Carter administration has launched a vitriolic campaign against his Repulican challenger. Gov. Ronald Reagan. that is. deliberately distorting the Governors labor positions in an attempt to frighten voters away from the Republican ticket. The Presidents pollsters have apparently decided that President Carters dismal labor record cannot stand on its own. so any administration campaign rhetoric must be concentrated on smearing the Republican candidate with lies and emotional diatribes. Mr. Speaker. the American people are too smart for that. This election year. they are not looking for the best muckraking candidate. They are looking for a leader with the issues to bring them out of this deepening recession with hope and opportunity for the future. The administrations strategy was brought to my attention by a speech that Vice President Walter Mondale gave before the New York State AFLCIO. In that speech. according to the Buffalo Evening News. the Vice President stated that ""Reagan favors busting up the American tradeunion movement."" In the same speech. the Vice President accused Governor Reagan of wanting to trash the social security system. ""union security."" and the Occupational Safety and Health Act. Mr. Mondale continued to accuse the Republican Party of hating the working men and women of America. and offered as a Carter defense the contention that ""his administration has -put more persons to work in 4 years than any administration in history."" Let us examine the facts. In the first place. Ronald Reagan was elected president of his union. the Screen Actors Guild. six times. where he led its first strike. As far as I know. Ronald Reagan is the first union president ever to be a candidate for President of the United States. As one who knows what it is like to bargain from labors side of the negotiating table. Governor Reagan strongly supports the collective bargaining system free from Government intervention. Claims to the contrary by wouldbe detractors are obviously attempts to distort the facts. And let us look at the employment picture that Vice President Mondale so virtuously described. When President Carter took office in January 1977. the unemployment rate stood at 7.3 percent. There were 6.958.000 Americans unemployed at that time. Now. as of July 1980. the latest figures available. the unemployment rate stands at 7.8 percent. with 8.207.000 Americans unemployedalmost 1 million more unemployed working men and women in the work force than when he took office. And where did most of this unemployment come from? From layoffs in the most heavily unionized industries in the countrythe auto. steel. rubber. and maritime industries. Hundreds of thousands of workers have been laid off hereworkers who have little hope that their factories will reopen in the near future. Surely Carter cannot claim that this has made him a friend of labor. Or take the Presidents Council on Wage and Price Stability. This is an agency created by President Carter that believes labors wages should be frozen at 7 to 81/2 percent while the Democratled Government devalues their paychecks by 13 to 15 percent. The administration that supports these policies cannot believe in rendering a fair wage for an honest days work. That administration is no friend of labor. Let us take a look at some of Vice President Mondales other claims. The so called radical statement of Governor Reagan regarding social security on January 31 of this year was: The Social Security System must be reformed to guarantee that those depending on Social Security. and those looking forward to its protection in the years ahead. will continue to receive their payments. and that their payments will keep pace with the cost of living * * * such reform cannot come from increasing the already exorbitant taxes paid by workers to finance the system * * * the final answer. however. must be fiscally sound on a longrange basis. Do you hear a attack on the social security system here? Not at all. Ronald Reagans strategy for economic growth will save social security. As to OSHA. Governor Reagan clearly is not calling for the dismantling of the Agency. He strongly feels that the way OSHA has been run has resulted in harassment and nitpicking to the detriment of real workplace safety. That this is true is obvious when one reads statistics verifying the increase in industrial accidents in this country since OSHA was enacted. As President. Governor Reagan would refocus on the real objectives of the OSHA Act rather than permit a perpetuation of the badgering and abuses which have been so counterproductive to its intent in recent years. The bottom line is Governor Reagans concern for the working men and women of America. The Democrats are now divided as to whether they want to stand for low unemployment and high inflationTed Kennedyor low inflation with high unemploymentPresident Carter. Governor Reagan recognizes that surely the experience of the past decade is that such choices are unnecessary. The combination of inflation and progressive tax rates has continuously widened the gap between what an employer pays and what a worker takes home. Inflation and the outdated tax code automatically raise the tax on profits. and at the same time this combination pushes the worker into higher tax brackets. Acrosstheboard tax rate reduction. such as Governor Reagan has proposed for both individuals and businesses. can increase the"
960301010|Mr. Speaker. many of the economic liberals have proposed mandatory wage and price controls as the solution for our inflationary woes. There are many ironies in their taking this stance. First. these economic liberals are those who pride themselves in the protection of individual libertiesthe rights of the individual visavis the Stateas I do. But here they are. saying that the individual choices of working men and women to seek higher wages and of individual business people to ask higher pricesin each case made necessary as a response to the inflationary flames fanned by the failure for so long a time for Congress to act with even a small measure of fiscal responsibilityought to be denied. This anomaly of commitment to some individual rights and not to others by those who call themselves liberal is nothing new. but it is always fascinating. Second. there is great irony in the fact that these economic liberals. who have consistently put themselves forward as deep thinkers on economic questions. have chosen to champion the hamhanded approach of mandatory controls. It evidences not economic intellectualism. but a total surrender of policya bankruptcy of innovative thinkingthat most liberals normally would not admit to. Perhaps we have reached that point. Perhaps nothing else is. in fact. left to do. But it is interesting that the economic liberals are the first to give up and admit that their cupboard of ideas is absolutely bare. Third. many of these economic liberals have prided themselves on being students of history. Yet few Americans would dispute that the history of the mandatory controls that the liberals propose is one of failurethat they dont work but merely create black markets and excessive and costly bureaucracies and when they are lifted. as after World War II and in the Nixon administrationthe most recent examplesprices shoot up even higher than they would have without the controls. It is ironic that these students of history ignore history. The final irony. however. is the most profound. It is the irony that the real culprit in the raging inflation that we are now experiencing is not the wage earner trying to keep up with rising costs by asking higher pay. nor is it the businessman adjusting his prices to reflect higher costs. both of whom mandatory controls are aimed to restrain. Rather. the culprit is the actions of these same economic liberals in the Congress. voting more and more Federal spending year after year. spending far beyond available revenues. until after almost 26 years of this fiscal recklessness the average American family faces a doubledigit inflationary tax on top of all the other taxes they pay. Those who have caused the problemthough they dont even seem to recognize their own complicitynow say they have the solutionmandatory wage and price controlsa bankrupt. endoftheline policy from those who pride themselves on their intellectual approaches. a policy that denies individual liberties from those who pride themselves on protecting them. a policy that history shows has always been a failure from those who call themselves historians. And those who promote it are the very ones who created the problem it seeks to solve in the first place through their unending spending and fiscal irresponsibility. What ironies.o
960301011|Mr. Speaker. each year. I actively solicit the views of my constituents by sending out a questionnaire to every household in the 10th Congressional District of North Carolina. The response this year has been good: Approximately 13.500 persons have shared their opinions with me. and the responses are still trickling in. The answers to the specific questions have been helpful to me. but even more enlightening have been the comments which many have taken the time to write on the bottom of the form or in separate letters. Of particular interest to me were the respondents who wanted to know my position on each of the questions. The most onesided response came on the question of whether or not social security benefits should be taxed. Ninetyfive percent oppose this unwise proposal. This is consistent with my belief. and as many of my colleagues are aware. I have cosponsored legislation to keep the proposal to tax social security benefits from being enacted. Hopefully. the issue is dead for this session. Two changes in our Constitution were opposed by a majority of my constituents. The idea of limiting the Presidency to one 6year term instead of two 4year terms was opposed by 60 percent. with 38 percent in favor of the change and 2 percent undecided. With respect to the number of terms for a Member of Congress. 46 percent wanted to limit the service of congressional officeholders and 51 percent opposed this change in the Constitution. Frankly. I feel that we need more discussion of this issue. I am concerned that we are getting away from the tra-
