speech_id|speech
960187161|Mr. President. many plans have been offered to curb our Nations very serious energy crisis. One. in particular. demands special recognition. The proposal by the National Center for Appropriate Technology outlines an energy plan which would yield tremendous fuel savingssavings equivalent to those projected in the administrations costly synthetic fuels program.
960187162|proposal will also benefit the Nations lowincome families by reducing their energy costs and improving their energy selfsufficiency. There are over a million lowincome families in New Hampshire and New England that cannot afford todays skyhigh energy costs. Our energyfueled inflation promises even more outrageous prices in the future. which will further increase the number of people snowed under by high energy bills. To combat these escalating costs and tackle runaway inflation. the NCAT plan proposes to provide direct aid to help families immediately. as well as to increase the energy efficiency in their homes. which will help to secure an affordable energy future. Major components of the proposal are: Weatherization of 16 million lowincome homes. especially in areas such as New Hampshire. which are dependent on costly imported home heating oil. kerosene. propane. and electricity. National programs to install solar heating systems in lowincome residences and housing projects. Retrofitting older automobiles to improve gas mileage. and Several plans to increase community food production in lowincome areas. I heartily endorse this plan. which would lift the burden of excessive energy cost from the shoulders of those who are hit hardest. I ask that the following article explaining the NCAT proposal in greater detail be printed in the RECORD in its entirety.
960187163|"proposals notes that. although President Carter called conservation the ""cornerstone"" of his national energy policy in 1977. priority has instead been given to an $88billion. 10year synthetic fuels development program. including a proposed Presidential commission to expedite it. ""Why are there no multibilliondollar conservation and renewable energy programs and a Presidential commission with the authority to clear roadblocks in the path of conservation and renewable energy development?"" the NCAT report asks. The ""poor peoples energy plan"" proposed by NCAT calls for a major Federal program that both attacks the devastating energy problems of poor people and demonstrates the promise of renewable energy and conservation. ""America is presently engaged in a critical debate over how best to meet the energy crisis."" said Edwin C. Kepler. NCAT executive director. in releasing the proposal. ""We believe the alternatives highlighted in our proposal are not getting the attention they deserve. and thats why we have issued this study."" Key aspects of the proposal are: (1.) A shortterm program of ""crisis intervention"" payments to help lowincome people pay their energy bills. which would be phased out in future years as the energy load is picked up by conservation and renewable energy and fuel/utility bills are reduced to manageable levels. ""Without emergency assistance in coldclimate areas. lowincome people who cannot pay their fuel bills will quite literally freeze."" the report states. ""But ... a dollar spent for lowincome emergency assistance pays for a quantity of fuel which is burned and temporarily keeps a poor person warm. It is used once. it cannot be recovered or used again. A dollar spent for conservation or solar energy. conversely. continues to supply new energy. day after day and year after year."" The plan recommends boosting President Carters lowincome energy assistance program from $1.3 billion to $3.2 billion this year. and changing its incomeeligibility standards so that the program can be opened to more households. (2.) A massive program to ""weatherize"" 16 million lowincome homes--onefifth of the nations housing stock--over five years. including substantial liberalization of spending limits and restrictions to permit optimal energy conservation measures to be taken for each home and apartment. The program. aimed at reducing energy consumption of each residence by 50 percent or more. would be directed first toward areas where it is needed most---cold climate regions such as the Northeast. where scarce and expensive fuel oil is a common source of heating fuel. (3.) A national program. designed as a followup to the weatherization program. to install solar space and waterheating systems on lowincome residences. Costeffective solar and energy conservation measures also would be made mandatory in all new public housing projects. (4.) Programs for ""recycling"" old automobiles. not only to make them more fuelefficient but also to conserve the energy used in manufacturing them by greatly extending their useful life. In addition. two to three million vehicles per year would be retrofitted to increase their fuel efficiency by at least 20 percent. Major development programs would be undertaken in both gasoline/ alcohol blends (gasohol) and purealcohol motor fuels. (5.) Three major programs aimed at supplementing the food supplies and increasing the selfreliance of lowincome people would be undertaken: Installing solarreliant greenhouses. encouraging establishment of local community gardens. and decentralizing food production and distribution systems through establishment of local consumer. and/or produceroperated cooperative food marketing systems. ""The poor use less energy than the rest of us and pay a greater proportion of their income for it."" says McBride. noting that lowincome people in cold climates commonly pay 3040 percent of their incomes for fuel and utilities. while middleincome consumers in the same regions spend only about 710 percent. Yet. he says. the poor and nearpoor use far less energy per capita than do more affluent segments of society. CXXVI--32--Part 1 And. the report states that the cost of energyintensive necessities like food and transportation pose equally distressing problems for the poor. Escalating food prices dictated by mechanized food production. processing and distribution systems. as well as the appetites of gasguzzling older cars they can afford. place lowincome people at evergreater economic disadvantage."
960187164|"energy plan analyzes three different approaches to alleviate energy problems of the poor: Subsidy programs to help consumers pay energy bills. further developopment of largescale energy technologies in hopes of lowering costs. and transfer of smallscale technologies that increase selfsufficiency of lowincome people. The alternative favored by the synfuels program. developing largescale technologies. is rejected in part on the basis of history. ""It is often the case that new energy technologies become more expensive rather than less so as they are developed and brought into the commercial marketplace."" notes McBride. citing the example of nuclear powers early promise of electricity ""too cheap to meter"". ""For poor people this means the prospect of fuel bills that will increase in the future as rapidly as they have in the past few years. and poor peoples food bills. which are inextricably linked to energy costs. will reflect the same upward trend"". the report states. ""A transition to renewableenergybased society is inevitable. The time for this inevitable transition is now. while it can be rationally planned and while fossil fuels are still available to bridge the transition. not at some time in the future when many currently available options have been foreclosed."" argues the NCAT proposal. The National Center for Appropriate Technology. established in 1976. is funded by a $3.7 million grant from the U.S. Community Services Administration to develop and apply smallscale. lowcost technologies that alleviate energy and related economic problems of the poor. The Centers research and development. small grants. information and administration headquarters are located in Butte. Montana. and NCAT offices are maintained in Washington. D.C.. as well as in each of the 10 federal regions. The complete text of the NCAT proposal. ""Energy and the Poor: An Imperative for Action"". can be obtained by writing to John McBride. Deputy Director for Policy and Technology. The National Center for Appropriate Technology. P.O. Box 3838. Butte. MT.. 59701.*"
960187165|"Mr. President. the deluge of steelplant closings announced this week highlight the need for legislative action to revive our ailing national steel industry. Ideally. such legislative action should not attempt merely to stabilize the industry in its present state. rather. it should attempt to stimulate the industry to streamline and modernize its facilities. It should encourage the development and application of technological innovations. Only by so doing will our steel industry be able to keep pace. on its own resources. with foreign competition. One such technological innovation of great promise for steelmaking is the formed coke or ""formcoke"" process. which produces a more efficient and environmentally sound fuel for blast furnaces. Formcoke is made from coals that are heattreated in special ways. bound together. and formed into briquettes or pellets of uniform size and shape. The uniformity of formcoke permits greater productivity and energyefficiency in steelmaking: A significantly greater amount of steel can be produced with a ton of formcoke than with ordinary coke. There are numerous other advantages to formcoke over the ordinary coke now employed throughout the world. Less energy is required to produce formcoke. It can be made from inferiorgrade coals unsuitable for any other purposes. Consequently. it can employ easily obtainable coals that would otherwise be useless. Coal mines thought to be ""mined out"" could be put back to workalong with the miners formerly employed in them. Most important. the formcoke production process is inherently environmentally sound: It is a continuous and closed process that nowhere permits pollutants to escape to the air. I am pleased to say that the development of formcoke has been well underway in this country for years. and that Congress has already initiated action to help it along. Congress approved an appropriation for fiscal year 1980 of $5.8 million to support a formcoke demonstration project to be conducted by Inland Steel Co. and $1.5 million to continue the operation of a pilot plant constructed by Formcoke Associates (a steel industry group). These projects give every indication of yielding an economically advantageous product that will bear out its promise. We can expect the formcoke process. therefore. to find a welcome place in our Nations steel industry. But the steel industry is now desperately short of the capital required to renovate its aging and deteriorating coke production facilities. let alone make room for their future replacement by facilities for the production of formcoke. This technological advance could very well be left unused in this country while seized upon abroad. Fortunately the Senate has had the foresight to begin action on this problem. On Monday. November 26. it approved my amendment to the Windfall Profit Tax Act that makes cokeovens eligible for the Alternative Energy Property Investment Tax Credit enacted last year. If this amendment is retained in conference with the House and passed into law. it will significantly expedite the steel industrys longterm planning and improve its rate of cokeoven rehabilitation. It is the kind of legislation needed to prompt this industry to rebuild its facilities and equip them with the most advanced technology. The result will be a more competitive and environmentally sound industry.*"
960187166|Mr. President in accordance with the provisions of section 133B of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946. as amended. I submit for printing in the REcoRD the rules of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. The rules follow:
960187167|"Mr. President. as I have said before. there are examples of distinguished liberals who have remained true to the original philosophy of the civil rights movement. and who have spoken out against its perversion by the proponents of quotas under euphemism of ""affirmative action."" Dr. Carl Cohen is professor of philosophy at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. He has written widely noticed books-""Democracy"". and ""Civil Disobedience."" He has been a member of the board of directors of the American Civil Liberties Union. In June 1979. Dr. Cohen published in Commentary magazinewhich once again is demonstrating its prescience by taking an interest in a taboo issuean incisive attack upon the contemporary drift of opinion. It is perfectly summarized by its title: ""Why Race Preference Is Illegal and Immoral."" I recommend this article to my colleagues. I would like to draw particular attention to subsections (II) and (III). which demolish all attempts to detract from the literal wording and purpose of the Civil Rights Act in prohibiting racial discrimination. This was exactly the escape route that the majority of the Supreme Court took in Weber. to their considerable shame. I ask that Dr. Cohens article be printed in the RECORD."
