speech_id|speech
460076622|Will my colleague allow me to interrupt him for a moment?
460076623|Certainly.
460076624|You certainly misunderstand the resolution. It declares that all public debts of the United States shall be paid in the money of the contract. and not in any coin or money the Government may choose to pay them in.
460076625|Any money the Government may issue is by this resolution declared to be lawful money. and. therefore. is to be made the money of the contract by the legislation proposed today.
460076626|That is a mere quibble based on a total misconstruction of the resolution.
460076627|Answer in your own time. Now the third point in this resolution is that there shall be no refunding of the$780.000.000 to fall due this year and next. but all that shall be paid. How? Out of the resources of the nation? Yes.but the money to be manufactured at the Treasury is to be called part of these resources. Print it to deaththat is the way to dispose of the public debt. says this resolution. I have only to say that these three make the tripleheaded monster of centralization. inflation. and repudiation combined. This monster is to be let loose on the country as the last spawn of the dying party that thought it bad a little life in it a year ago. It is put out at this moment to test the courage of the two political parties. it is offered at this moment when the roar of the presidential contest comes to us from all quarters of the country. In a few moments we shall see what the political parties will do with this beast. All I have to say for one is. meet it and throttle it. in the name of honesty. in the name of the public peace and prosperity. in the name of the rights of individual citizens of this country against centralism. worse than we ever dreamed of. meet it and fight it like men. Let both parties show their courage by meeting boldly and putting an end to its power for mischief. Let the vote be taken.
460076628|I yield two minutes to the gentleman from Pennsylvania.
460076629|I cannot say much intwominutes. Ican.however. say that the announcement of the gentleman from Ohio that to require the Government to make our money tended to consolidation was idle vapor. as there never was an honest dollar. or franc. or mark. or shilling that was not made by a government. No other power than government can make money. Currency there has been which government did not create. banknotes. and notes of individuals promising to pay money. but money other than that made and issued by a government. by its authority and upon its responsibility. has never existed here or in any other country. And all that the gentleman said on that point was. I repeat. balderdash. So was his allusion to the wildest dreamer that ever lived. In voting for this resolution I will stand with that wildest of dreamers to borrow the gentlemans wild phraseology. Thomas Jefferson. who. when portraying the dangers of using banknotes as money. aswas the practice at the time he wrote to Mr. Eppes. said: The power to issue money should be taken from the banks and restored to Congross and the people. to which it properly belongs. The gentleman also vociferated against the resolution because it proposes to put an end to the refunding of our debt. If there is to be no more refunding of maturing or matured bonds into those which are to have either thirty or fifty years to run. I will thank God with fervent thanks. for Secretary Chase never said a wiser thing than APRL 5.
460076630|addressed the House. [Ilis remarks will be found in the Appendix.]
460076631|I yield for a minute to the gentleman from Indiana.
460076632|"Mr. Speaker. I reckon myself most happy in having an opportunity of witnessing a vote upon these resolutions which have so attracted the attention of this House and of the country for the past three months. I am not surprised at the opposition of the gentleman from Ohio. I understand verywellthat that gentleman and his party stand in the road blocking the progress of the people toward financial reform. He assailed these resolutions with two distinct propositions: First. that they favored centralization. second. that they are in violation of the public faith of the nation. in that they propose to pay the public debt in ""manufactured money."" as the gentleman styles it. I call his attention to the resolutions themselves in response to that. There is not one word in these resolutions looking to a violation of the public faith or to the payment of the public debt in anything not strictly in accordance with the contract. That is the language of the resolutions. that the bonds shall be paid as rapidly as possible and according to the terms of the contract. We all understand very well what the gentleman means when he raises the cry that the public faith is about to be endangered. He means that it is a violation of the public faith to pay the public debt in silver dollars of 4124 grains. That is what the gentleman means. The resolutions propose to pay the bonded debt in silver dollars. if the bondholders prefer coin. Every man of sense in all this broad land knows that the holders of these bonds do not want them paid in either gold. silver. or greenbacks. They simply want them to be funded perpetually and be exempted from the burdens of the state. I say here and now that the national greenback party is opposed to the violation of the public faith. and is squarely opposed to the repudiation of any portion of the public debt. We are in favor of the payment of the debt accordingto the contract. and we are the only party that desires ever to pay it. And while we are in favor of that. we are determined that the moneyed interests of the country shall not repudiate again those features in the contract which are in favor of the people. We say that the bondholder having specified in the law that he would receive the silver dollar of 4124 grains in payment for his bond. in all good faith he should be held to the strict terms of the contract. He may have his pound of flesh. but not another drop of American blood! We do not seek to compel the bondholder to receive the greenback in payment of his bond. The people once had the right so to pay them. but that right was ruthlessly and wickedly taken away by a change of contract in 1869. which took from the toiling taxpayers $600.000.000. more than half of which went to enrich foreign princes and usurers. These resolutions do not propose to interfere with the contract. notwithstanding it was conceived in sin and fraud and brought forth in iniquity. It proposes to pay in standard silver dollars. Ali. it is not greenbacks. it is not silver. that you hate. It is the payment of the debt that so enrages you. But the gentleman charges. vehemently. that the resolutions tend to centralization and Cnsarism. It is well that the gentleman has announced to the House and to the country that the republican party prefers to trust the national bankers. and the banking corporations. to control and issue the volume of the currency. rather than a Congress of the sworn representatives of the people. That he prefers the bankers of the country. not elected by the people and not responsible to them. should have the power to control the volume of the currency according to their own will. rather than the representatives of the people. who are directly responsible to their constituents. Let that issue be sharply and squarely drawn. It is the great practical issue today in the American Republic. Who shall issue the currency and control its volume? Shall the bankers control it for their own selfish ends. or shall its issue and volume be controlled by the whole people for the benefit of all? That I say is the colossal issue. and in it is involved the very existence of this Government and the freedom of the people. ""Centralization!"" The Congress of the United States. chosen for two years. coming directly from the people and directly responsible to them for their conduct. are not to be trusted! but the bankers of the country. who are not chosen by the people. or elected by them. are to be trusted with this great power involving the happiness and welfare of fifty millions of people. and their countless posterity. without a murmur from the gentleman and with his express approval. Let me repeat it again. so that the American people may fully understand it. These bankers are to be trusted. says the gentleman. in preference to the people and their chosen representatives! Is there no centralization. no Cnsarism here ? In the name of public peace. in the name of honesty and fair dealing. in the name of the laboring millions. who toil and dig and pay the taxes of the country. I invoke the softmoney democrats of the United States and the hundreds of thousands of republicans who have been long looking in vain for economic reform within their party. to join with us in a deathgrapple with this corporate monster. In the name of the humble poor who struggle not for office. and who simply want a fair chance in the race of life. I ask you to give one vote for the Republic. Let there be no dodging today. no hiding in the cloakroom. you cannot serve two masters. You cannot avoid the issue if you would. It it vital. permeating all classes. and engaging the attention of the people as never before in our history. This is a supreme moment in the istory of men and of parties in this House. Reflect well before you vote. I ask the Congress of the American people to stand up and assert with Thomas Jefferson that the issue of the circulating medium should be taken away from the banks and restored to the Government. to which it properly belongs. I ask my democratic friends to stand where Jackson stood when he said in his farewell address that the banks could not be relied upon to keep the circulating medium uniform in amount. I ask you to stand where Calhoun and all the other great leaders of your party stood in the past and purer days of your history. And I ask my republican friends here to repudiate the doctrine of the gentleman from Ohio. You owe it to your dignity and to the American people to repudiate the doctrine that you cannot trust yourselves as the peoples representatives."
460076633|Will the gentleman allow me to ask him a question?
460076634|Certainly.
460076635|Where will the Government get the money to pay the matured bonds?
460076636|It is very easy to answer. First. from the surplus revenues properly increased by a judicious income tax. second. by the coinage of silver. The bonds are not mature. they are payable at the option of the Government.
460076637|But where will the Government get the money to pay when they do mature?
460076638|They are only payable at the option of the Govermnent. and the Government can coin all the silver that is necessary.
460076639|And where will the Government get the silver?
460076640|Where does it get it now? It buys it with the surplus revenues. and manufactures silver dollars. and $4.000.000 a month. even under the present law. will pay off the principal and interest of the debt now maturing in half the time that it is now proposed to fund it.
460076641|How do you propose to secure the $4.000.000 a month to pay for the silver?
460076642|With the surplus revenues of the country. You are paying the debt now for electioneering purposes at the rate of two millions a week. and do not feel it. There is ample surplus revenue for the purpose. all that is needed is the disposition to pay.
460076643|Is there any other way that the Government can pay for the silver with which you propose to pay off the bonds than by issuing legaltender greenbacks therefort Will you answer me that squarely ?
460076644|I will. We can buy the silver bullion with the surplus revenue that is now coming into the Treasury.
460076645|There is nothing in that answer. The surplus revenue is in greenbacks. You dodge the question.
460076646|The greenbacks are convertible into gold.
460076647|rapped to order.
460076648|Will the gentleman answer me that question ?
460076649|The gentleman from New York will be seated. The gentleman from Iowa has the floor.
460076650|I dodge no question. In further and direct answer to the gentlemans question. I say that this Government has the power to issue and reissue its own currency. as has been held by the highest court of the country. and it can issue enough to redeem the national bank circulation. and then it can cancel. having paid the debt of the banks. it can cancel. as fast as they mature. the bonds now held by the banks to secure their circulation-
460076651|Will the gentleman yield to me?
460076652|Not now. Andin that way we can pay $330.000.000 more of the national debt. There is no trouble about paying the debt. The trouble with the gentleman from New York [Mr. CniirrmDEN] is that lie does not want to pay the public debt at all.
460076653|You admit the paper is tobe issued to pay it.
460076654|The Government has the same power to issue a paper dollar that it has to issue a gold dollar. the same power to issue a paper dollar that it has to authorize the national banks to issue their circulation. The gentleman claims that the Government cannot even reissue a paper dollar. as a legal tender. after it has been received into the Treasury for public dues. What supreme folly!
460076655|Mr. Speaker. there is so much noise and confusion in this Hall that we can hardly hear. much less consider. the resolotions introduced by the gentleman from Iowa. if I correctly comprehend them. they contain several propositions I indorse. and will vote for them when they come in to be legislated upon. I favor the doctrine asserted. that we should pay with greenbacks those bonds so payable. We should have unlimited coinage of silver. and with silver pay the bonds payable in coin. I am opposed to refunding the public debt. and am opposed to national banks. There are so many financial conundrums embodied in the resolutions. I may have forgotten some. But if I heard the resolutions aright. there is one doctrine asserted in them to which I cannot subscribe. I refer to that one asserting the power of Congress to make money out of paper. redeemable in nothing. and yet give it a legaltender quality in payment of private claams between citizens. I do not understand that to be constitutional. I think that is entirely too violent an assumption of power by Congress. The gentleman from Mississippi requested that be omitted from the resolutions. if it had been. I should vote for the balance. The gentleman from Iowa declined to make the modification and as these resolutions must all be voted on together I shall vote in the negative. especially as they are simply an expression of opinion. and not intended to be a law even if they received every vote in the House. Not wishing to be put in the false attitude of opposing the wise provisions of the resolutions I make this explanation of my vote. The Supreme Court has decided that Congress had the power to issue a redeemable note but not an irredeemable nondescript. The idea. to my mind. is a chimera. and I am unwilling to subscribe to it.
460076656|"Mr. Speaker. the pending propositiou is what in military parlance may be called a dressparade vote. It is not a vote in the line of the regular legislative service. It does not propose to enact a law. but to vote upon an abstract proposition to ferment and agitate the public mind upon a most delicate and important question. This is nut a political convention of any of the parties of the country. This is a Congress. a lawmaking body. the highest of the nation. It is unwise. in my opinion. to devote our time to the discussion of mere resolutions when they cannot have the efficacy of law. It has been very well said the pending resolutionfor that is all it ishas some good points with many bad ones. One bad point is. that it is a declaration on the finance question hastily thrown before the House and the country to be voted on without deliberate discussion and well calculated to be misunderstood by the now active and prospering business interests of the nation. The eyes and ears of the political economists and the statesman are everywhere gratified with certain evidences of thrift and prosperity in all the varied branches of our great industries. The trade. the business interests of the laud have settled down to the bedrock of sound money. Gold and silver and the greenback. all equal and interchangeable with each other. circulate without question with the tradesman and the banker. the laborer and the bondholder. A dollar today is a dollar of actual value. and prices and contracts have adjusted and are adjusting themselves accordingly. Resumption came. and came to stay. The wild visions and crazy prophecies of the ""fiat money"" theorists have vanished into thin air before the convincing logic of actual results. Yet the passage of the pending resolution will disclose to the country and the world that this House is willing to surrender all that has been gained. that we would return to the wilderness of financial confusion through which we have been wandering for the past few years. Sir. I will not consent to this. This is not a proposition to retire the greenback nor to reissue it. but a declaration that the Government shall primarily issue all money in peace aswell as war. metallic and paper. making each a legal tender for both public and private debts. without regard to the volume of the issue or the attribute of interchageability. Observe. there is no provision in this proposition that the paper to be issued as a legal tender shall be convertible into coin. The effect. then. of the first resolution will be a declaration that this House is willing to commit itself to the utterance of that heresy that. has tormented the country for the past few years. and which has been so recently repudiated by a majority of the people. that the mere stamp of the Government gave the value to the commodity which was called money. Sir. I will vote for no such paradox in our wellregulated political economy. My sentiments on this question before the people were at all times and everywhere announced. I will not now and here misrepresent them. The second resolution may not be so objectionable as the first. The public debt should of course be paid aceording to the contract. I am not now and never have been disturbed about the payment of our debt in silver. I never thought any contract about the great mass of our public securities was violated by a payment in silver dollars. But. sir. I have no time now to enlarge upon the details of our refunding processes. The first resolution before us is full of perils and political quicksandssuch a declaration going out from this House at this time of business contentment will be a signal of danger. It may cause many an industrial venture to pause and hesitate. many a manufacturing establishment may stop and inquire. many afarmer will be concerned about the prices he will get for his crops and his stock. A reekless resolution like this going out today from the Congress of the nation will come like a bell in the night upon our commercial and industrial activity. No class of society will be exempt from the ban just now of this proposition. He who advocates such a measure may not say sincerely be is the friend of the workingman. No sir. confusion and uncertainty in business brings no employment to jabor. no bread to the poor man. I might vote for some points of this proposition separately. but as a whole I believe it to be unwise and I shall therefore vote against it."
460076657|The time of the gentleman from Iowa has e xpi red. The question is on ordering the yeas and nays on the motion to suspend the rules and adopt the resolution offered by the gentleman from Iowa.
460076658|"would vote "" ay."""
460076659|My pair with Mr. MARTIN. of Delaware. is on all political questions. Believing he would vote in the negative on this question. I have so voted.
460076660|I am announced as paired with Mr. TALBOTr. of Maryland. I have been informed by the colleagues of Mr. TALBOTT that he would vote in the same way as I have voted. and therefore I have voted.
460076661|The Clerk has announced that I am paired with Mr. FERNANDO WOOD. My pair with Mr. WOOD expired this morning. I think I am authorized to say that he would vote as I have done. if he were here.
460076662|"I am announced as paired with Mr. BAiLEY. my colleague. Believing he would vote ""no."" if here. I have so voted."
460076663|I heard the Clerk read the announcement that I was paired with my Colleague. Mr. URNER. There is no such pair at this time.
460076664|The Clerk has read the announcement as furnished to him.
460076665|It was announced to me last week that Mr. McLANR and Mr. URNER were paired.
460076666|"That may be so.. but the pair is now terminated. I have voted "" no."" and I understand that Mr. UNER would have voted the same way if he had been here."
460076667|I am quite sure of that.
460076668|I understand that my pair still continues. The gentleman from Pennsylvania. who has charge of the matter. is absent. With the understanding that my pair still continues. I have not voted.
460076669|"My pair with Mr. HENRY. of Maryland. is on political questions. Believing this not be a political question. I have voted ""no."""
460076670|The Clerk announced the pair of Mr. HARMEE. of Pennsylvania. with Mr. SIMONTON. of Tunnessee. My colleague. Mr. MARTIN. of West Virginia. who is confined to his room by sickness. is under the impression that he is paired with Mr. HARMER. of Pennsylvania.
460076671|I desire to state that my colleague is under that impression. The result of the vote was then announced as above stated.
460076672|I ask leave to print some remarks upon the subject of the resolution just voted upon.
460076673|I desire to make a similar request.
460076674|And so do I.
460076675|I move that general leave be granted to members to print remarks upon this subject.
460076676|I move that the rules be suspended so as to discharge the Committee of the Whole on the state of the Union from the further consideration of the bill (H. R. No. 4911) to amend the statutes in relation to immediate transportation of dutiable goods. reported with amendments from the Committee on Ways and Means. and that the bill with those amendments be now passed. The bill as proposed to be amended was read. as follows: A bill to amend the statutes in relation to immediate transportation of dutiable goods. Be it enacted. etc.. That when any merchandise. other than explosive articles. and articles in bulk not provided for in section 4 of this act. imported at the ports of Now York Philadelphia. Boston. Baltimore. Portland end Bath. in Mains. Chicago. Pert Huron. Detroit. New Orleans. Cleveland Toledo. and San Francisco. shell appear by the invoice or bill of lading and manifest of the importing vessel to be consigned to and destined for either af the ports specified in the sixth seetion of this act. the collector at the port of areival shall allow the said merchandise to b shipped im ediaiely after the entry proscribed in section 1 of ths act has been made. SEC. 2. That the collector at the prt of first arrival shall retain in bis offipe a permanent record of such merchandise so to be forwarded to the port of destinalieno and such record shall consist of a copy of the invoice and a entry whereon the duties shall be estimated ns closely as possible on the merchandise so shipped . but no oaths shall be required on the said entry. Such merchandise shall not be subiect to appraisement and liquidation of duties at the pert of first arrival. hut shall undergo such examination as the Secretary of the Treasury shall deem neceseary to verify the invoice. and the same examination and appraisement thereof shall be required and had at the port of destination as would have been required at the port of first arrival if such merchandise had been entered for consumption or warehouse at such port. Sc. 3. That such merchandise shall be delivered to and transported by common carriers. to be designated for this purpose by the Secretary or the Treasury. and to and by none others. and such carriers shall be responsible to the United States as common carriers for the safe delivery of such merchandise to the collector at the part of its deostinatien. and before any such carriers shall he permitted to receive and transport any such merchandise. they shall become hound to the United States in bonds of such form and amount. and with such conditions. not inconsistent with law. aid such security as the Secretary of the Treasury shall require. SEc. 4. That merchandise transported under the provisions of this act shall be conveyed in cars. vessels. or vehic es securely fastened with locks or seals. under the exclusive control of the officers of the customs. and merchandise may also be transported under the provisions of this act by express companies. on passenger trains. in safes and trunks. which shall beof such size. character. and description. and secured in such manner as shall be from tio to time prescribed by the Secretary. and in cases where merchandise shall be imported in toxes or packages too large to he incloded within the safes or trunks so proscribed. such merchandise may be transported. under the previsions of this act. by such express companies. in a separate compartment of the cr. secured in such manner as shall from time to time be prescribed by the Sec taery of the Treasury. and merchandise such as pigiron. spiegeliron. scrapiron. iron ore. railroadiron. and similar articles commonly transported upon platform or flat cars. ieay be transported. uader the pro. visions of this act. upon such platform or flat cars. and the weight of such merchandise so transported shall he ascertained in all cases before shipment. and ordi. nary railroadscales may be used for such purpose. and inspectors shall be stationed at proper points aloug the designated routes. or upon any car. vessel. vehicle. or train at the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury. and at the expense of the companies. respectively. Such merchandise shall not be unladen or transshipped between the ports of first arrival and final destination. unless authorized by the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury in cases which may arise from a difference in the gauge of rilroads. or from accidents. or from legal intervention. or when by reason of the length of the route the cars. after due inspection by ens. tome oflcers. shall be considered unsafe or unsuitable to proceed further. or from low water. ice. or other unavoidable obstruction to navigation. and in no case shall there b penritted any breaking of the original packages of such merchandise. SEC. 5. That merchandise so destined for immediate transportation shall be trans. ported. ureter proper supervision. directi from the importing vessel to the car. vessel. or vehicle in which the same is tobe transported to its final destination. Sic. G. That the privilege of immediate transportation shall extend to the ports of New York and Buffalo. in New York. Boston. in Massachusetts. Providence. in Rhode Island. New Haven and Middletown. in Connectecut. Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. in Pennsylvania Baltimore. in Maryland. Norfolk and Richmond. in Vrginia . Charleston. in South Carolina. Savannah. in Georgia. Now Orleans. in Losiana. Portland and Bath. in Maine . Chicao. in Illlos. Detroit and Port Huron. in Michsgan . Saint Louis. tn Missouri. Saint Paul. in Minnesota. Cinceinnati. Clevelaid. end Toledo. ic Ohio. Milwaukee. in Wisconsin. Louisville. in Ken. tucky. San Francisco. in Calitorais. Portland. in Oregon. Memphis. in Tennessee. :Mobile. in Alabama. and Evansville. in Indiana. Sec. 1. That sections 29902991. 2992. 2993. 2994. 2995.2996. and 2997 of the Revised Statutes be. and the same are hereby. repealed. Sec. . That no merchandise shall ho shipped under the previsions of this act after such merchandise shall have been landed tne days from the it orting vessel. and merchandise not entered within such tie shall e sent to abonsed warehoese by the collector a unclaimed. and held until regularly entered and appraised. SEc. 9. That this act shall take effect and be in force from and after the 1st day of July. A. D. 1880. The motion to suspend the rules was then seconded.
460076677|I desire to say this is the unanimous report of the Committee on Ways and Means. I ask that the report of that committee. which is a short one. be read. The report was read. as follows: Your committee reports that under existing laws importers of articles destined for any of the interior ports are subject to delays. increased expense. and other hardships not necessary to secure the collection of the duties on such merchandise. Importers are now required to give bond at first port or port of entry in addition to the transportation bond. which has always proved sufficient to save the Government harmless in the collection of its revenues. Liquors and many articles other than explosive articles and articles in bulk are now excluded from the right of ransportation in bond. thus compelling the importer to receive his goods and pay duties at the seaport. Articles now authorized to be transported in bond. with right to importer to pay duties at any interior port. are required to be transported in sealed cars and in other modes than such articles as psg and railroad iron and other like articles are usually transported. Your committee reports the following substitute for the bill (H. R. No. 870) referred to the committee for consideration and report. which substitute so amends existing laws as to remedy the hardships above referred to. and in this the Secretary of the Treasury concurs. Your committee therefore recommends the passage of the substitute.
460076678|I move to suspend the rules so that the Committee on Ways and Means be discharged from the further consideration of House bill No. 5265. and that the same be now passed.
460076679|I call for the yeas and nays on agreeing to the motion to suspend the rules. The yeas and cays were ordered.
460076680|also read the following announcement: I am paired with Mr. MARTIuc. of Delaware. but being informed by some of his party associates that he would vote in the negative. I have so voted.
