speech_id|speech
710094972|Mr. Speaker and gentlemen of the House. realizing that the Philippine question Is certain to consume much of the attention of this Congress. it has been my intention some time during the session to address the House on the subject. The remarks of the Commissioner from the Philippines induce me to say just a word at this time. I want it understood my discussion of anything relating to the Philippines is always animated by the greatest possible interest. admiration. and friendliness for the Philippine people and their representatives on this floor. The Commissioner from the Philippines [Mr. GuaVARA] referred to the fact that I asked a question during the debate last month as to the binding effect of any promise that had been given to the Filipinos. that is. any promise that was binding upon the American people. Since that time I have examined the question with some little care. and must confess. although I hope I would be the last one to be guilty of being a party to any breach of faith on the part of my country. that I have come to the conclusion that there is a very grave question as to whether there has ever been a promise made to the Filipino people by anybody authorized to make it or a promise made in any such way as would bind us and compel us as a matter of faith to grant independence to the Philippine Islands. The only statements or declarations in the nature of a promise are those that have been made by Presidents of the United States. starting with the memorable declaration made by President McKinley when he gave his instructions to the first Philippine Commission. Those instructions simply called for such direction of affairs in the Philippine Islands as to prepare the Filipino people for selfgovernment. nothing which could in any way be considered as a pledge or an obligation or any definite declaration or intention to grant them complete independence. It Is true that other statements of the same kind and going much further have been made by other Presidents and by Governors General reiterating the statements of the Presidents. but my point is that nobody has ever had authority to commit the American people to a course of conduct of this grave nature short of some expression on the part of the people themselves. These declarations to which I have referred culminated in the preamble to the Jones law. to which reference has been made. I can not blame. nobody could blame or criticize the Filipinos for feeling as they do on this subject. but. on the other hand. those of us charged with a solemn duty in this regard should consider and analyze this question and all the considerations involved with the greatest care before we assume to act. I maintain that the declaration in the preamble of the Jones law that it had always been from the beginning the purpose of the American people to grant the Filipinos their independence is not in accordance with the facts. because the American people had never had an opportunity to express themselves on this subject. except once. namely. in the presidential election of 1900. when the question of giving up the Philippines was the paramount issue before the people. and when by a most decisive majority the American people decided that they wished to retain the Philippine Islands. and that was followed up by waging a war. in which 70.000 American troops were engaged and In which a vast amount of tikeasure and blood were expended for the purpose of holding them. Mr. Speaker. another question which we must consider at this session before we can vote on a resolution granting Independence is the constitutional right of Congress to part with the Philippines. I do not propose now to enter into any extended discussion of that grave constitutional question. and I could not do it satisfactorily or adequately at this time.
710094973|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield?
710094974|I can not yield In the short time at my disposal.
710094975|The time of the gentleman from New York has expired.
710094976|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent that my time be extended for three minutes.
710094977|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent that the gentlemans time may be extended for five minutes in order that I may ask him a question.
710094978|And reserving the right to object. I should also like to ask the gentleman a question.
710094979|Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from New York that the time of the gentleman from New York be extended five minutes?
710094980|Mr. Speaker. there is no authority. I maintain. in the Constitution which gives Congress the right to part with territory of the United States. once acquired either by purchase or by treaty. and I believe that if the constitutional lawyers in this body will examine this question with care they will find that there is so grave a doubt as to the power of Congress to pass any such resolution that it would be most reprehensible for us to do it. short of some declaration on the subject by the Supreme Court of the United States.
710094981|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield?
710094982|Does the gentleman not think that the objections which he is making are highly technical. that all of the time since Dewey sailed into Manila on that May day morn there has been an implied promise held out to the Fillpino people themselves that in Gods good time when they had arrived at a state when we believed they were fitted for their own government. they would have that government handed to them? Are not the gentlemans objections technical. and not moral?
710094983|If the gentleman from New York had listened to me. he would have seen that it is exactly the other side of that proposition that I maintain.
710094984|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield?
710094985|What did we do with reference to Cuba? Did we not give the Cubans their independence?
710094986|We had not acquired title to Cuba. I will say to the gentleman. My proposition is simply this. that we have no more authority to part with the Philippine Islands today. to give them their Independence. than we have to sell Alaska or any other Territory.
710094987|The time of the gentleman from New York has again expired.
710094988|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent that the gentleman be given two additional minutes.
710094989|The Chair thinks he should not further recognize the gentlemen to ask unanimous consent for an extension of the time.
710094990|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent to extend my remarks in the RmeORD on the Hawley bill. and to include a letter on the subject by myself.
710094991|Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Iowa?
710094992|"Mr. Speaker. I extend my remarks on the Hawley bill and its relation to tariff revision by reprinting in the REcORD a letter written by me and printed in the Cedar Rapids (Iowa) Gazette and Republican on January 3. as follows: WASIIINGTON. D. C.. January 2.-When Congress meets on Monday the tariff bill will have right of way In the Senate. The Senators have promised to dispose of this issue quickly. The people have an interest in this. They want to go on with business as usual and they can not do it with tariff rates hanging fire. Some Senators believe they can pass the bill in two weeks now that they have made up their minds to get down to business. But it will hardly be done that quickly. Then the bill will go to conference. I continue to believe that a good bill will be passed. On all sides we are better minded than we were. The industrialists are more willing to concede right of way to the agriculturists and after the recent stock panic the agriculturists are willing to concede a1 little more in the way of industrial duties. With such good prospects less criticism is heard of the House bill and of the House procedure. In fact. the course which the House followed it is now conceded was the course of wisdom. If the House had not voted to send its bill. unsatisfactory as it was to many. to the Senate. there would not now be any prospects at allthat is. if the House had defeated Its own bill. no tariff revision would have. been pending now. or been possible. for the Senate can not originate such legislation. The Constitution places that authority and responsibility In the House alone. Many of those who have criticized have done so because they do not understand the legislative procedure.. That procedure Is: First. the House must draft a bill. second. the Senate must draft a bill. presumably based on the House bill. third. the two bills. which may be entirely different. must be sent to a committee. composed of five or even nine members from each House and it is in the conferences of this committee that all tariff bills are finally shaped. Under this procedure the House bill was only a tentative bill and so understood. In this case. If It had been the final bill. I and many others would not have voted for it. What I voted for was to send the bill on its way through the Senate to final1 conferences. In considering such legislation there is another Important fact to be stated. In the House the socalled industrial States outvote the socalled agricultural States more than two to one. For instance. New York. an industrial State. has 43 votes in the House. and Iowa. mainly an agricultural State. has only 11 votes. It follows that the industrial States can outvote us in the House and they did outvote us lest spring. But in the Senate it is different. There Now York and Iowa have the same voting strength--that is.2 votes each. We therefore had a right to look to the Senare to correct some rates we could not get right In the House. Under such conditions in drafting our bill time House sought to get the most It could for agriculture. and to get the rates we wanted we had to concede some Industrial rates that we did not want. We did this because we relied on the Senate for further adjustments. In this strategy we were so successful that the Senate will have to make very few changes of a major kind. In our House agricultural rates. So far the Senators have made. only one major agricultural change. increasing the duty on casein. a dairy byproduct. from 21/ to 5 cents. the rate .we tried to get in the House.. • How hard the fight made in the House for adequate agricultural rates was I may show by citing blackstrap. a refuse molasses of the sugarcane mills. of which we are importing more than 300.000.000 gallons annually. This imported stuff displaces around 40.000.000 bushels of corn in the manufacture of industrial alcohol. The parliamentary situation was such that we were able to carry the fight for a duty on blakstrap to the floor. I had spoken so often on this subject. having specialized on It. that I deferred to my colleagues. Mr. RAMSEYER and Mr. DIcKINsoN. to make the fight on the floor. If two men ever put up a fight. they did. It was so successful we won our victory on one ballot but lost it on another. both by slender majorities. I can not pass on without paying a special tribute to Mr. RAMSEYEa. He was the Iowa member of the Committee on Ways and Means. which has tariff legislation in charge. He was almost the lone member for agriculture on that powerful committee. The burden of the fight fell on him. He did not fail in his efforts. even If he did not always get what he wanted. No one who was not here will ever know how much our agricultural schedules in this tariff revision will owe to him. He is worthy of all honor. When the bill was reported out of committee with some agricultural schedules unsatisfactory and mniny more industrial schedules much more unsatisfactorythat Is. too highthe question arose what we should do with the bill. whether we should kill it on the floor. which I do not think we could have done against the industrial strength of the East. or whether we should pass it on to the Senate for further amendment. Mr. tAmsEYER himself coined the phrase that constituted the best answer to that question. Better to send the bill to the Senate hospital than to send it to the legislative morgue. To send it to the Senate meant two more chances to perfect the bill: First. In the Senate Itself. and. second. in the final conference between the two Houses. But if we sent it to the morguethat is. killed itthat would be the end of tariff legislation. and one of the two big purposes of President Hoover in calling the extra session would have been irretrievably defeated. Under such conditions wisely we followed the only wise course. that is. we sent the bill to the Senat~e. We did this by an overwhelming majority. Of the 256 Republicans voting. 244 voted to send the bill to the Senate and only 12 voted no. But 244 against 12 was an impressive Republican victory. / But if we lost a paltry 12 out of 25( Republicans. we gained more from the Democrats. 20 of whom voted with us. Among our Democratic recruits were RUTH BaYAxN OwEN. of Florida. and CLAUDE IUDSPETH. of Texas. I mention them because Mrs. OWEN was the first Bryan who ever voted for a protective tariff. She cast her vote that way because she believed the bill was a step in advance for agriculture. Mr. IUDsreTrIs vote was even more significant. because he himself is a cattle man and farmer. He went so far as to speak for the bill. declaring that more had been written for agriculture into this House bill than had ever before been written into any one tariff bill or Into all of them put together. What we did for agriculture in the House needs neither defense nor justification. We made it possible to get what I believe now we are going to get . that is. a tariff bill that will come very near placing agriculture on a parity with industry. In closing I want to speak of the industrial rates. Agriculture must not be industrially blind. There is an interd ependence between them. Both must prosper if either would prosper and neither will prosper long unless they both prosper. It is easy to sneer at the rocalled industrial East. but it is on that industrial East that the agricultural West is most dependent. The factory workers are the consumers of farm prodacts. There must be work and wages in the factories and in all socalled Industries or there will be no market for agricultural products. At the present time there is a slight depression In the industrial East. Too many men have gambled in stocks. as 12 years ago too many men gambled In land. In October we had a deflation and a depression. We are feeling the. effects of this even in Iowa. Butter prices have gone down. They have gone down because the men In the Industrial East can not pay high prices for this butter while slack in work. I fear they are eating more oleomargarine. It does not take much of a depression. Last week the editor of Wallaces Farmer and Iowa Homestead told his readers that ""a slight decrease in consumption would put dairy products on the International market."" We must keep butter and other farm products on the American market. and one way of doing that is to keep labor employed at good wages. There are two things to be kept in mind in making tariff laws. I will quote them as they were stated by my colleague. Mr. RAMSBYER: "" First. Increase the pay roll of industry and you Increase the farmers market for his products. "" Second. Increase the income of agriculture and you increase the volume of industrial sales."" That is the delicate balance that we must strive for in tariff legislation. We can not attain it by hurling epithets at each other. nor by mere political clamor. whether for partisan or personal purposes. We can attain it only by thinking economically as Mr. Hoover Is trying to do. And I believe it Is Mr. Hoovers tariff program that will he enacted after all our wrangling. A tariff revision in which agriculture will be stressed. but which will not neglect to care for such Industries as are now hampered by foreign competition. due to cheaper labor in Europe and Asia. We must strive to keep all we can of the American markets. which are the best markets in the world for both the American farmers and the American industrial laborers."
710094993|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent to proceed for 10 minutes to reply to the gentleman from New York . and to speak from the Philippine viewpoint with respect to the appropriation bill affecting the War Department. which is charged with the erection of military posts and other buildings in the Philippine Islands.
710094994|Reserving the right to object. Mr. Speaker. the gentleman already has permission to extend his remarks and inasmuch as that has been arranged for. I think we should not further delay the business that has been arranged by the House. I shall object for the present.
710094995|I think the gentleman has confused the two Resident Commissioners.
710094996|The gentleman can get time in his own right at a later date.
710094997|Mr. Speaker. I reserve the right to object.
710094998|Objection is heard. The gentleman from Washington is recognized for 15 minutes.
710094999|"Mr. Speaker. I would like to thank the House for the permission granted me to make a short speech in order to outline very briefly a bill introduced by me today for the regulation of Immigration into the United States from countries on this hemisphere. I am proud that I was present here to hear the Presidents message read concerning the plans for law enforcement. and that I was privileged to follow the reading of that message. I noticed that the Presidents message favors a consolidation of the various inspection services at our border. I also noticed that the Speaker referred the portions of the message relating to each phase of the various controls at the border to the particular committee that would have jurisdiction. This means that the immigration borderpatrol discussion will be referred to. the Committee on Immigration and Naturalization. of which I have the honor to be chairman. On the border many of our laws have to be enforced. Laws relating to plant and animal quarantines. narcotics. liquor. imports. customs. immigration. and other protective laws have to be enforced. The entire public wants all of these laws enforced. Our Immigration Committee set up the immigrationborder patrol and secured the first $1.200.000 by which it was established. There was no civil service of suitable employees available. so the turnover in men was heavy for the first two years. and then we began to enroll a fine lot of men of the type tMat works without regard to hours. men who ride their own horses. cook their own camp meals. and guard fully the sneakin places. These men travel frequently with customs or prohibition enforcement men. and our immigration men seize lots of automobiles and turn in many liquorlaw violators to the authorities of the other services. Gentlemen. I believe it will be well for these various border guardians to always travel in pairs or in threes. It will really be economy and will make for the safety of the men and the public. Our Immigration Committee has made an extended study of the subject. and much testimony is in ourfiles. We have tried hard to have our border patrol enlarged. I used to believe that a unified border patrol was the only thing. Then I visited various ports of entry on both borders. and I came to the conclusion that the United States could neverfor the salaries it payssecure men competent to lead the hard life of the border and at the same time acquire a good working knowledge of the highly involved immigrations. customs. prohibition. and other laws. and the regulations of the departments with relation thereto. That would be more than we should ask of the men that we can secure for the money paid. But all that will be determined by the various committees having charge of the various parts of the procedure. The enforcement of law is a nonpartisan matter. and I have no doubt that the various chairmen and the ranking majority and minority members of each committee which the Speaker named will soon find a method for coordination. Our immigration committee will have published certain hearings not heretofore printed. so that all nay read the testimony given by witnesses brought by us from distant border places. But. Mr. Speaker. I arose to discuss and explain a bill which I have this day introduced. a bill to apply a numerical limitation to immigration from all countries of the Western Hemisphere. This measure would apply a new quota system. permitting an influx into the United States equal to three times the annual immigration of American citizens to Western Hemisphere countries. It would also authorize the establishment of a plan of immigrant selection by the Secretary of Labor to ""develop a homogeneous population in the United States."" If the administration and the Congress are earnestly trying to improve industrial. crime. and other conditions in this country. there is nothing that can be done that will be more important to that end than limitation of Western Hemisphere immigration. We have cut off most of the immigrant stream from Europe and Asia. to our great benefit. but one result has been an extraordinary intake across our northern and southern boundaries. Depression of wage scales by Immigrant job seekers in New England and the Southwest is a notorious fact. That depression is evident in Los Angeles. Calif.. where paupers fill the asylums. while ablebodied workingmen walk the streets for work. The jobs have been taken by newcomers who will work cheaper. It has spread even to the city of New York. The city of Harlem. N. Y.. too. has become a veritable Babel. and a seething Sodom. populated with peoples from the islands of the West Indies. South America. and elsewhere. A dangerous festering sore breeds there. The mixture does not make for good civilization. My colleagues. jobs are hard to get in Chicago. American citizen workersbarbers. painters. waiters. carpenters. and so onare being crowded out by the mixed breeds. The congestion of nonassimilable aliens. notwithstanding all administrative hindrances properly set up under existing laws. is the greatest menace to American workers there. We must stop this. not only for our present people of all races. but for posterity. The population. if it is to carry on a free Government. must grade tip. not down. I am presenting a bill which embodies what I believe to be the first really sound. understandable. workable plan under which the quota system can be applied uniformly. fairly. and justly to all nationalities of North. Central. and South Amer!can countries. Its simplicity will be apparent to all. I propose that for every American citizen who goes to reside permanently In another Western Hemisphere land we shall admit three immigrants from that land. This will reduce immigration from North. Central. and South America by approximately twothirds. permitting a total of a little more than 50.000 annually instead of the 150.000 or more that we have been receiving. I believe that the nations on the north and south of us will be gratified if this bill can be passed. Some of the higher officials of those adjacent countries with whom we desire to have the best of relations have said to me personally that they want the pouring out of their people into this country stopped. so far as that is possible. In addition. my bill will respond to the plea repeatedly made by Secretary of Labor Davis for a selective system *of -immigration by authorizing .a preference. after all existing preferences have been accorded. to persons of all nationalities who may be found to be specially assimilable into the population of the United States."
710095000|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield?
710095001|I am sorry I can not yield. I have so little time. The President in his message to this Congress asked for some better form of selection.. . This bill may be the beginning of a form of selection for the limited immigration now coming from Europe. This is the bill that so many Congressmen have *asked for. It is what 80 per cent of you demand. Most of you pledged your constituents that you would work for such a law. Let us pass it soon. I expect to press it in committee. and the committee will perfect my bill. improve it. and hasten it to -the calendar. The committee was organized just before the holiday recess. I regret it was not organized early in the extra session. because there is so much work to do. As a matter of fact. my colleagues. this committee should be an7 exclusive committee. It is a mistake to have hardworking members who sit on this committee also serve as chairmen and ranking members of other committees. Our committee has the record In recent years of having the largest number of deaths of members of it and of members who have become sick and whose health has been broken. I think it has the largest number of- members who have been transferred to or promoted to socalled ranking committees. All the key subjects of the Nations greatest problems--educationi. standards of living. eugenics. Sunday observance. drama. press and its freedom. free speech. riots. strikes. crimes. gang government. revolution. lessons in communism. wages of workingmen and of seamen. deportations. health. population. birth rates. protection of our borders. strikes pulled off to be lessons in communism. anarchy. the black hands. cotton growing. Fascisti. farm labor. sugar beets. crop production. the people of our insular possessionsall these and more are subjects that must be considered in our hearings. In this Congress there are seven new members on this committee who must start in on this technical legislation. There are six on the committee who have been members of the committee In the previous Congress only. out of a total of 21. All work bard. or soon learn to. work. hard. They quit hearings in their other important committees to sit for hours in this immigration work. the large room with but one small window reeks with smoky. foul. putrid air. Oh. hasten the day when the new House Office Building is completed. Everyone knows that immigration legislation involves many technical questions and it is a difficult task to attempt to coordinate the various acts that have had to be passed piecemeal since the World War. I know of 20 corrections that should be .made by acts of Congress to make administration truly possible. But there will not be time for all that. Besides. the work is almost beyond the time that the committeemen can give to it. .
710095002|The time of the gentleman from Washington has expired.
710095003|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent to proceed for five minutes more.
710095004|The gentleman from Washington asks unanimous consent to proceed for five additional minutes. Is there objection?
710095005|"In this book. dated four or five years ago--I have not had time to look it up. but I will put it in the Rucoim--there are committee hearings telling the whole story of the setting up of the Black Shirts or the Fascisti. it is all here in detail. A thousand copies of the hearings were printed and they were licked up out of the committee room in 10 days. - Now. Mr. Speaker. I do not want to say anything that might be taken as offensive by any nation in the world or by the people of any nation. or the descendants here of those people. There is discussion going on editorially in some of the papers as to whether the pressure which brings the call for more and more restriction of immigration is on racial grounds or on economic grounds. As far as I have been concerned. neither race nor religion has ever been in my mind in the matter. A black bushman. born in the very center of Africa. is a man as much as I am. but he is a thousand years behind in his opportunity for education and opportunity. So there is no feeling in it. However. as a student of population and of heredity and of eugenics. I know that if a man with a civilization""stafidard. say. of 10 marries a wman who has adVanced on civilizations path to the point of only 4. you will not reach the standard of 10 again in the posterity of that family for 300 years. making allowances for all of the geniuses. inventors. and scientists who may be born sporadically. This is proved in the history of ancient nations. and even quite modern ones. It is proved in studies of families over many generations. This bill. and others relating to the particular subject. will be laid before the committee at its meeting Tuesday. The committee has not yet worked on it. although the preparation of what seems so simple has taken much time of myself and numnerous associations during the summer season. We will have brief hearings. At these it will be shown that only last Wednesday. so I am reliably told. 1.000 Mexican laborers took the places of others in one -of the great steel mills of Pennsylvania. This. too. in a city which has had unpleasant and unsatisfactory experiences with laborers of that type. It will be shown. I think that one of the things that has so distressed New England recently is the constant influx of considerable numbers of the longestablished FrenchCanadian -type from eastern Canada and the Maritime Provinces Into New England. Those men continue to arrive. in New England factory cities. where the mills are already overmanned.-. I am told that some 80.000 or 90.000 immigrant workers. skilled and unskilled. have domiciled themselves in the New England States since the passage of the 1924 act. that the mills there at no time have been able to employ them. So even the 90.000. a limited number. that stopped in New England after reaching the United Sta.tes added several burdensnonemployment. crime. increased taxes for charities and schools. besides driving the older established laborers on to newer fields. where their arrival upsets labor conditions. cuts wages. creates strikes. lockouts. riots. and even murder. Mr. Speaker. recently some 400 great captains of industry were called to this city by the President for a conference. It was agreed unanimously that they should drive industry. erect buildings. and enlarge plants. Why? To keep up the employment of the countrywork and pay for 600.000 or 800.000. But what good will that do if the influx from either side. of our country. or from any South American or West Indian country. or any European country. drives people away from their jobs? So that is why this bill will pass. As I say. there is no feeling in the matter. Any country in the world would do the same. Selfpreservation is a law among nations as it is among men. If you could get an approximation of the actual unemployment of the United States today. you would be astonished. One reason is through the increase of our births over deaths. High speed. high pressure. high st andards of living. higher costs of living. All these things drive more and more young men and women into industry. into labor. The young women ave putting on overalls and working in the factories. Every time that is done some older man. perhaps as young as 40 but the father of a family. has his job placed in jeopardy. le is being hurried to the human junk heap. Oh. -it is pitiful. Our foreignborn naturalized citizensexcept the radicals and the communists and the internationalistswant restriction and would yell for it were it not for the fact that they want to bring their relatives from the overpopulated caldrons of hunger. hate. and strife from which they escape. They know exactly what overpopulation will do to living standards and wages. They have seen it. They do not want it here. Modern cities do not want cheap labor. Mere population does not make prosperity. If so. China would be the richest nation in the world. India would be wealthy and happy. and our own Porto Rico would be the richest place tinder the American flag. Look ahead! Births over deaths in this country are considerably more than 1.000.000 a year. which means that employment must be found each year for nearly that number of boys and girls as they become 18 to 21 years of age. Trhe great automobile Industry in the last 20 years has given all kinds of employment to young and oldfrom work in the mines. the forests. the -factory. the salesrooms clear down to the thousands of roadside tanks where gas is sold. Where is the next industry to come on and take care of your grandchildren. the young boys 19 and 20 years of age? Where is it. in this age of laborsaving machines and of merger grouping and consolidation? Our population is now more than 122.000.000. Our births are so much greater than the deaths. the struggle from hand to mouth is so great. it seems to me that we are called uponto close quickly the side doors and thus complete the work which Congress approved in 1924. Mr. Speaker. these bills were nonpartisan. Both platforms have called for them. and years from now wvhen history is written the act which Will stand out most prominently alongrside of the disarmament conference of the late President safety of the Republic and the benefit of posterity which will Harding will be his Public Act No. 6. his signature to the tern- come after us even a hundred years from now. -porary quota act. which slowed down immigration from more I thank you. gentlemen. than a million a year to a few hundred thousand. God bless The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman from his memory for that. He told me that he would sign any Washington has expired. restrictive bill that I could get out of committee and through Mr. SABATH. Mr. SpeakerCongress and asked me to hurry. The SPEAKER pro tempore. For what purpose does the genWhen as the years go byand we contemplate the accom- tleman from Illinois rise? plishments of former President Coolidge we will appraise as Mr. SABATH. Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent that among his greatest works the signing of the 1924 restrictive the gentleman from Washington may have his time extended for immigration act. which. after 40 years of effort by Congress. five minutes for the purpose of enlightening the House wherein closed the doors as tight as possible. his bill differs from the bills that the gentleman from Texas Yes. it took 40 years for Congress to bring this about. for [Mr. Box] and myself have introduced in the last and precedevery President. except onewho postponed actionvetoed an ing Congresses on the question of placing the Western Hemiact and every act that Congress passed. when the people began sphere on a quota basis? to see that immigration was getting out of bounds. when our Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. I ask the gentleman to withdistinguished and honored predecessors who sat in the seats draw the request. I can not use the five minutes. I know we where you sit. began to see that the United States-"" the asylum will have the support of the gentleman from Illinois [Mr. for the oppressed ""-was. likely to be so swamped that it would SABATH] in this great effort because he has stated on the floor be all asylum. and nothing else. a number of times that these side doors need to be clos(d And when this bill is perfected in our committee. passed by in fairness to other nations from which we admit so few person. House and Senate. and signed by President Hoover. it will be- Mr. SABATH. I am in favor of it. but I want to know in come a law that will complete and round out the whole immigra- what way these bills differ. tion situation program and will be to the everlasting credit of Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. All bills will be considered. another PresidentHerbert Hoover. The old Box bill. the new bill just introduced by Judge Box. the What a monument to these Presidents. to these Presidents Sabath bill. An amalgamation will follow. That is the usual of our day and generation ! custom. We will take the best of all. Is it not a monument to those who sat in these various Con- I am very sorry the gentleman has been promoted from the gresses and fought this hard fight. because the fight does get Committee on Immigration to the Rules Committee. because we very bitter? will not have his help to drive this thing through now. Blood tells. and it takes two or three generations to bleed Mr. SABATH. You will have it. I have been fighting for away certain feelings. We admire any man who loves the it for years. country wherein he was born. but we must insist that he shall Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. I thank the gentleman. be patriotic and love and revere this countrythe United States Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent to extend my remarks. of America. The SPEAKER pro tempore . The *gentleWe owe something to a former colleague of ours. who sat in man from Washington asks unanimous consent to extend his this Chamber years ago--HEIaN. of Alabamawho has just remarks. Is there objection? accomplished something that your committee had tried to do. There was no objection. In extended hearings published in this volume we exposed the Mr. JOHNSON of Washington. Under that permission I American Fascisti. the oath of allegiance to Mussolini. the fact shall print paragraphs which explain in a nonlegal way the the Sons of Italy in America in annual convention were only various paragraphs of the bill. as follows: saved from giving a majority vote of allegiance to the dictator Section 1 of this bill needs no further explanation other than -by the efforts of the orders president. Mr. Cottilli. now a New to say that this act shall be known as the immigration act of York State supreme judge. The 1.000 copies printed were 1930. snapped up by the members and the public. The testimony Section 2 repeals subsection (c) of section 4 of the immigracreated little or no stir. Last November a magazineHarpers. tion act of 1924. It is this provision of the act of 1924 which I believeprinted an exposure of the workings of the Fascisti exempts immigration from countries on the Western Hemisphere in the United States of America. from the quota provisions now in force covering the rest of the It attracted a little attention. The exposure would have been world. dead in a month. but for this former colleague of ours ToM Section 3 provides that the quota system now in force shall HEFLiNI do not stand for most of the speeches he has made- not be less in fact but limited as to countries which are now I am proud that he had the power in the legislative body to read effectively covered. Conditions on this Continent of North that entire article. He thundered it. He made the public America and on the Continent of South America are held to be wake and see beyond what was simply a part of our knowledge so widely divergent in character from the immigration reon the subject with no action taken. But H=ruN made the ceived from the various political subdivisions or geographical dictator in Italy call back the Fascisti. Every Fascisti organiza- areas that immigration from these regions has been artificially tion in the United States has been closed. Their flags. their stimulated since immigration from Europe has been restricted. oaths to be first and to be forever Italians. even though natu- Section 4. This section is chiefly technical for administrative ralized here. are suppressed for the moment. thanks to that purposes. The data upon which the quotas are based has been orator who. when he means business. shoots both barrels. I consolidated in some cases by the Commissioner General of Immido not care whether he is a Democrat or a Republican and on gration into geographical areas rather thanpolitical subdivisions this bill I do not care what party you belong to. nor should any designated in section 3 of the act for simplicity and precision. of us. for in these things we are all Americans. On the computation of the quota established as hereinafter deWhy do I say a good word for HIsMN? Because what he has scribed. political boundaries have been disregarded and geodone to stop open Fascisti meetings in the United States paves graphical areas formed into immigration units which are prethe way for a bill from our committee to take away the citizen- scribed as the basis for quota. ship of those who insist in dual allegiance. And because I There is no nature of discrimination In this procedure belearn that in my State right now a man from the Mediterranean cause by and large the immigration from each immigration unit is rushing around among naturalizedcitizens. who desire to be is of the same general character. This Is so for Canada and good citizens. condemning me for my immigration work in Con- Newfoundland belong together and these two subdivisions of the gress. and calling on the voters to keep me at home. Last year British Empire are grouped together. Mexico is. of course. an editor of a New York foreignlanguage paper. naturalized but grouped as one unit with its dependent island. Central and for one year. felt it to be his duty to campaign against me in South American logically fall in the same unit. and finally the the third congressional district of Washington. In Chicago a West Indies form the last unit described in this section. It will few weeks ago a man of God burned me up from a lyceum forum. be noted that each group as constituted shall have separate and his remarks are printed in an ancient language which I subsections in this section. can not read. Is that fair? Section 5 is. from a practical viewpoint. the heart of this However. you can not. I can notmust nothave any feeling bill. This provision establishes the quota system. covering all against those now amongst us. even though we are attacked the immigration from the units described in the previous secby the enemies we make by doing what is clearly our duty. We tion. The method is simplicity itself and involves no discrimiwork to sustain and perpetuate this Government. and I hope and natory or arbitrary features which could offend the sensibility pray that means that when we are dead and in our graves the of our dear neighbors. be they near or distant. In North or South others who come after us and take the oath of allegiance and -America. The basis of this quota system is to be found in sit in these seats. this Government shall be upheld somewhat on Table 80 of the Annual Report of the Commissioner General of the lines in which the fathers gave it to us. I pray this for the Immigration for the year 1929. This table enumerates United"
710095006|Under the previous order of the House. the gentleman from Texas [Mr. Box] is recognized for 15 minutes.
710095007|Mr. Speaker and gentlemen of the House. the action of the chairman of our committee and his strong speech in support of this proposition is very gratifying to me. The House has just given evidence that many Members of the house are pleased over it. I know it is good news to many of my Democratic colleagues on the committee. as well as to gentlemen on the Republican side. I am introducing a bill today dealing with the same subject. There may be some differences in the details of the plans proposed by the chairman and myself. but I am here volunteering to follow the course -he is taking. which is in the right direction. and to give him the best support of which I am capable. I shall in due time present to this House the result of. my own incomplete and imperfect studies of this problem. I ask permission to incorporate at this place in my remarks copies of memorials and resolutions passed by State legislatures: Oregon. which was passed by a unanimous vote of all members of both houses present and voting. and is in the following language: [Thirtyfifth legislative assemblyregular session] Senate Joint Memorial No. 5 (introduced by Senator Moser and Mr. Anderson and read January 24. 1929) To the honorable Senate and House of ReVresentatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled: Whereas there is now pending a bill in the Congress of the United States. introduced by Senator litnms. of Georgia. providing for an amendment to the Immigration laws of the United States so as to place Mexico under the quota provisions applying to other nations. and Whereas under present conditions many thousands of Mexicans are entering the United States without any restrictions. and the cheaper labor of Mexico is rapidly coming in competition with American labor. and if this condition continues the standard of the American Worker will be greatly lowered. and Whereas the Legislature of the State ofOregon feels that this cOndition is unjust and should be promptly remedied : Now. therefore. be It Resolved by the Senate of the Etate of Oregon (the House of Representatives jointly conourring thercin). That we. your memorialists. the Senate of the State of Oregon. the House of Representatives concurring. respectfully request and petition ihe Congress of tile United States to promptly pass the legislation hereinabove referred to. placing Mexico under the same quota provisions concerning immigration as apply to other nations . and be it further Resolved. That the secretary of state of the State of Oregon be. and he hereby Is. requested and directed to forthwith transmit a certified copy of this joint memoril to the Vice President of the United States. the Speaker of the House of Representatives of the United States. and to each of our Senators and Representatives in Congress. urging their support on behalf of the matter embraced In this memorial. In a letter dated December 16. 1929. the secretary of state for Oregon writes me: This memorial was adopted by the senate on January 24. 1929. by a vote of 27 yeas. 3 members being absent. The memorial was adopted by the house on January 25. 1929. with 59 yeas and 1 excused. The total membership of the senate Is 30 . of the house. 60. The California Legislature spoke in the following language:
