speech_id|speech
610081241|Suppose a woman buys a ticket in New York to go across on the ferry to Jersey City and uses the ticket herself. If she goes there for the purpose of prostitution. does not she come within this clause? It does not say that any other person is guilty of this offense.
610081242|"It might be so. I had not examined the bill in that view. but the purpose of the bill. and the purpose of the other bill reported here from the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce. is not to punish the alien. but to punish the citizen for dealing with the alien. Now. let us see what the lottery case decided. There were four judges on one side and five on another. and I am as much bound to observe my oath. to obey and follow the Constitution of the United States where my convictions are that a bill is constitutional. as the judges of the Supreme Court are. I do not propose in the discharge of my duty. even if I believed this case stood in the way. to appease my conscience by saying that five judges out of nine had decided the law to be constitutional. They are responsible to their oaths. and to their obligations. and to their conscience. and I am responsible to mine. So it does not matter to me if perchance this decisionand I do not believe itdoes look like sustaining the bill. I do not believe it constitutional. and a thousand decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States would not change me if I reach the decision that it was not constitutional. In the Lottery cases (188 U. S.) Justice Harlan said. in.delivering the opinion of the court. that they decided nothing more in that case than that lottery tickets were subjects of interstate traffic. and that Congress may prohibit their carriage from State to State. I shall quote his exact language later in my remarks. Nothing more is decided by the lottery cases. and it is within the judicial history of that case that but for the fact that that decision was confined to the question of the carriage of lottery tickets. and that the principle was not extended. the decision of the court would probably have been different. But it is said that we prohibit the carrying of diseased cattle and diseased persons within the vehicles of Interstate commerce. I may answer the gentleman in the very language of the Chief Justice in the lottery case on that subject: i The power to prohibit the transportation of diseased animals and infected goods over railroads or in steamboats is an entirely different thing. because they would in themselves be injurious to the transaction of interstate commerce. and are especially commercial in their nature. The exclusion of these persons or these cattle rests upon a different ground. for nobody would pretend that persons can be kept off a train because they were coming from State to State to engage in the lottery business. Yet if you have got the right to punish a man for buying a ticket. you have got the right to prohibit one from going from one State to another to engage in any sort of immoral business. The present Secretary of State while AttorneyGeneral of this Government. in the course of two lucid speeches which he made upon the subject of interstate commerce. one at Pittsburg and one at Yale. defined the powers of Congress on the subject of regulating commerce. ""Things that are noxious within themselves. that contaminate and block up. hinder. and interfere with the transmission of interstate commerce may be prohibited. "" although I do not agree with him thoroughly upon that. ""But things that are not noxious within themselves can not be prohibited from being carried in interstate commerce from one State to another."" - It is not a fact that an immoral person. in association with persons going from one State to another to engage in immoral purposes. interferes with commerce. It is what they do after they reach their destinations. after interstate travel has been completed. which makes the crime that is denounced and defined in this bill. So when you come to deal with this particu• lar provision you undertake to punish for things Immoral under the commerce clause when you have no jurisdiction over the act. Chief Justice Marshall. in the celebrated case with which we are all familiar. the case of Gibbons v. Ogden. in Ninth .Wheaton. said that. Immorality. vice. pauperism. crime. are not things to be regulated by the United States. but are things to be prohibited by the power having jurisdiction to prohibit and punish them. We might in our desire to promote the general welfare enroll ourselves under the banner of great moral reformers and permit this bill to pass. without suggesting that it violates the Constitution of the United States. but to my mind there has never been within the history of the Government so long a forward step to the centralization of all power within the hands and control of Congress and the General Government as this. Who upon this floor will dare support this bill because his State. whose duty it Is to enact police laws to prevent immorality. to punish the violations of laws passed to prevent immorality and the contamination of the community by immoral personswho will stand upon this floor and vote for this bill because his State is not competent and will not attend to Its business which it reserves to itself the constitutional right and exclusive power to. do under the tenth amendment? I resent the idea suggested by many that my Statethat any Statewhich has never surrendered the right to exercise police power over aliens and everyone else within its borders. that my State. which has the power and authority reserved to It. never surrendered. will not protect its people from immorality anid vice and the contamination of immoral persons. We may exclude paupers. idiots. convicts. and foreigners for the protection of our people from immorality or vice whenever it may be for the public welfare of the local community. However laudable the purposes of this bill may be. and I do not gainsay it. I can not shut my eyes from the fact that It is an effort to assume power to punish immorality and vice within the State under the commerce clause of the Constitution and to exercise power that it does not have and which has never been surrendered or delegated to it by the States. Now. let us refer to some of the authorities: Inspection lawsSaid Justice Marshallmaritime laws. health laws of every description. laws affecting morals. good order. and general welfare. and laws regulating the internal commerce of the State. etc.. form a part of that Immense mass of legislation which embraces everything within the territory of the State not surrendered to the General Government. No direct. general power over these subjects is left to Congress. and consequently they remain subject to state legislation. In New York v. Mil (11 Pet.. 133) It was said: All these powers which relate merely to a municipal legislation. or what perhaps may more properly be called internal police. are not thus surrendered or restrained. and consequently in relation to these the authority of a State is complete. unqualified. and exclusive. In the Passenger cases (7 How.) it was said: In giving the commercial power to Congress. the States did not part with that power of selfpreservation which. must be.inherent in every organized community. They may guard against the introduction of anything which may corrupt the morals or endanger the lives or health of their citizens. *It was further said: So may the States. by like regulation. exclude from their midst not only convicts. paupers. idots. lunatics. and persons likely to become a public charge. but animals having contagious diseases. This court has never hesitated. by the most rigid rules of construction. to guard the commercial power of Congress against encroachments. in the form or under the guise of state regulations. established for the purpose and with the effect of impairing rights secured by the Constitution. It has. nevertheless. with marked directness and uniformity recognized the necessity. growing out of the fundamental conditions of civil society. of upholding state police regulations which were enacted in good faith and had appropriate and direct connection with that protection to life. health. and property which each State owes to her citizens. In another case it was said: A State has the same undeniable and unlimited jurisdiction over all persons and things within its territorial limits as any foreign nation. when that jurisdiction is not surrendered or restrained by the Constitution of the United States. It is not only the right but the bounden and solemn duty of a State to advance the safety. happiness. and prosperity of its people. and to provide for its general welfare by. any and every act of legislation which it may deem conducive to these ends. when the powers over the particular subjects are not surrendered or restrained by the Constitution of the United States. Now. I have not the time. nor do I desire to weary -the patience of the House upon this subject. but it is time to cll a halt to this advance toward this centralization of power and the destruction of all the rights of the States. It will not do to say that you favor It because it is a moral question or because it will accomplish good. There are many things that are great moral questions that Congress can not enact laws to advance nor to create crimes and fix punishments. Every question affecting the morals of the people can not come to this body. and it Is because the States and the subdiviv.ions of the States can better take care of these questions that the power was reserved to them to do so. and to the States exclusively. The former distinguished AttorneyGeneral. who is now Secretary of State. said this is a speech which I commend to this House: The Constitution Is not to perish at the hands of Impassioned phrase makers. and its defenders should not be deterred by mistaken or prejudiced clamor from performing their obligations to preserve and defend it. The Constitution was founded upon the sacrifice of the lives and fortunes of its ancestors. It is the solemnly expressed will of the people. It has been preserved by the people through all the years. and t must endure as written and expounded until altered by the people by the means which they have prescribed. If by the pretense of regulating morals or preventing people from going from one State to another for the purpose of preventing immoral practices the commerce clause can be used in a case like this. then it is an elastic shield beneath whose protection you can hide in order to protect. yourself from the charge of violating the Constitution of the United States. and we will have here one great central government. and the confederated government composed of an indissoluble union. of indestructible States which survived the greatest internecine war that ever bloodied the. pages of history will be no more. It will not do to say that measures are desirable. and popular and: therefore Congress should enact them. There are many movements which have our symphthy. There are bills for the correction of evils. which in the proper forum should and will be supported by us. yet our judgment might compel us to rebuke the means proposed for their accomplishment. especially since we must be convinced that such measures be futile and must fail when tested in the courts.. Mr. Speaker. however commendable and laudable the purposes of the bill may be and are. and however offensive to the moral sense the .practices sought to be corrected are yet. in. considering this proposed legislation. we can not close our eyes to the question whether the power to punish therefor is delegated to Congress or is reserved to the States. While the argument offered in the report of the majority undertaking to sustain the power of Congress to enact the proposed legislation is plausible. nevertheless it is a fact that It is an effort to use the power given to Congress under the commerce clause of the Constitution to exercise a power which it does not havethat is. the police power. I insist. therefore. that jurisdiction over matters of this kind and the offenses created by this bill comes within. the accepted definition. of the police power. and. speaking generally. that power is reserved to the States for. as the: Supreme Court of the United States has repeatedly decided. there is in the Constitution no grant thereof to Congress. To. use the. language of Justice. Brewer in the last adjudicated. case. of Keller v. The United States (213 U. S.. 138) : That there: Is a moral consideration in. the special facts of this case that he can charge is within the scope of the police power is immaterial. for. as stated. there is in the Constitution no grant to Congress of the police power. If Congress can assume this power. viz. the police power. to control in the manner sought in this bill the acts of citizens with- one another.. or acts of citizens with resident aliens. then the door is open to the assumption by the Federal Government of an almost unlimited body. of legislation. In the discussion. of the question we pretermit any reference to the question of the right of Congress to regulate or prohibit the admission of alien immigrants. into. this. country. to prescribe such rules and regulations. as. it sees fit for.. their admission.. to fix the grounds and reasons for their exclusion. and the cause and manner of their deportation. If this bill went no further than to undertake to regulate the importation of alien women for immoral purposes. and provide for the deportation of immoral and undesirable aliens.. it would meet with our. support. The principal authority relied upon. to justify the passage of this bill under the ""commerce clause "" of the. Constitution. is the Lottery cases (188 U. S.).. which case decided. that Congress had the power to prohibit the transmission through the channels of. interstate! commerce of lottery tickets. In that case it was decided by the Supreme: Court of the: United States that power was granted .to Congress. by the Constitution to so prohibit interstate traffic in lottery tickets. the decision was agreed to by five. judges and dissented from by four. Upon a careful reading of this case it will. be seen that the decision was confined to the question of prohibiting. the interstate traffic. in lottery tickets and nothing more. This will. appear from the. following extract from the opinion of the court pronounced by Justice Harlan: We decide nothing. more In the. present case. than. that lottery tickets are subjects of traffic among those who choose. to. sell or buy. them. that the carriage of such tickets by independent carriers from one: State to another is therefore Interstate commerce. that under its powet to regulate commerce among the several States Congress. subject to the limitations Imposed. by the Constitution upon the exercise of the powers granted. has plenary authority over such commerce and may prohibit the carriage of such tickets from State to State. (P. 363.) Chief Justice Fuller in his dissenting opinion in that case. and speaking. for three other justices. said: Nobody Would pretend that persons could be kept off the trains because they were going from one State to another to. engage in the lottery business. And this assertion of the Chief Justice does not seem to have been disagreed to by any member of the court. We further quote fr6m the language of the Chief Justice: The power to prohibit the transportation of diseased animals or Infected goods over railroads or on steamboats is an entirely different thing. for they would be in themselves. injurious to the transaction of interstate commerce. and. moreover. are essentially commercial In their nature. And the exclusion of diseased persons rests on different ground. for nobody would pretend that persons. could be kept off the trains because they were going from one State to another to engage in the lottery business. However enticing that business may be. we do not understand these pieces of paper themselves can communicate bad principles by contact. (P. 374.). Yet this bill undertakes to prohibit by punishment the aiding of the transportation. of any persons who may be going from one State to. another for immoral purposes. whether they be aliens or citizens."
610081243|Mr. Speaker. I yield five minutes to the gentleman from Tennessee .
610081244|"Mr. Speaker. in the brief time granted I wish to make public acknowledgment to the committee for bringing forward this valuable and needed legislation. My only criticism of the bill is that it does not go far enough. and I entertain the hope that before its final consideration the distinguished gentleman in charge of the same will accept certain amendments which I believe to be of vital interest to the American people. This bill carries with it the highest evidence of the present inefficiency of the enforcement of the immigration laws of our country. We have had upon our statute books for many years a provision excluding the criminal classes. and yet we all know that our country is being made the dumping ground for the criminafs of all the European countries. We have our doors wide open for every race on the face of the earth except the. Chinese. This ceaseless and constant flood of immigration. good. indifferent. and worthless. with an annual average of more than a million people from the four corners of the earth. in my judgment means more to the peace and civilization of our country than any question upon which this body can possibly legislate. This bill ought to carry a provision against that Infamous band known as the ""Black Hand."" which has its American home in the city of New York and branches in many of our ofher cities. If we are to exclude undesirables. let us include this class of notorious blackmailers and assassins. who ought never to be permitted to land upon our shores. We ought to extend the exclusion and embrace the Asiatics. those who in time will be pouring into our Western States from across the Pacific Ocean. We ought to exclude the ignorant. for the number of illiterates last year had increased until the percentage reached 29 per cent of the total number that were admitted. We ought to carry In this bill an appropriation that will enable the Immigration Bureau to thoroughly investigate the class. condition. and character of the people who are seeking to become citizens. before they are passed by our agents on the other side. No man should be permitted to land in America as a future citizen who Is unable to furnish from the local authorities of his home town. village. or district a certificate of good moral character. a record for industry and obedience to law. Let us welcome the honest. the industrious. the worthy. and the deserving. but keep out for all time the anarchists. the bomb throwers. the Black Hands. and the most despised of all. those engaged in the infamous whiteslave traffic. Mr. Speaker. I have had some personal experience. extending over a year. observing the loading of immigrants for America. witnessing eight times every month the method of the embarkation and examination of foreigners bound for America. and I say upon my responsibility as a Member of this House that investigations on the other side are a fraud and an Imposition upon the American people and an evasion of our laws. It will continue as long as steamship companies are interested in improving. extending. and increasing their business. with great armies of field agents going over all of Europe with ""finetooth combs"" gathering up immigrants from all lands and of all shades of characters and conditions and permitted to land them upon our shores. I hope this measure will receive practically a unanimous vote. and that it may be strengthened and enlarged in the interests of the future welfare and happiness of the American people."
610081245|Mr. Speaker. I yield thirty minutes to the gentleman from Alabama .
610081246|"Mr. Speaker. I am opposed to this bill. and I am opposed to it on fundamental principles. because it seeks by pretext and guise to exercise police power. I shall not in the few remarks I make say anything whatever that will tend to apologize for or condone the evil complained of and this bill seeks to remedy. I have as much faith as any American citizen has in the desire and purpose of the American people to protect and uphold the sanctity and chastity of our women. It must be apparent to us.all from the knowledge that we have of the lines of demarkation. shadowy and indistinct as they are sometimes on some subjects. between the power of a State and the authority of the Federal Government. I believe that a bill 6f this character and importance ought to receive the careful. considerate. and earnest attention of every Member of the House. I am fully aware as I stand here this afternoon on this floor that there is throughout this country a very large number of benevolent men and women. together with philanthropic associations composed of both men and women. who are very much prone from the best motives to indorse and to uphold any measure that seemingly stands for reform or to correct an evil. regardless of whether Congress has any lawful right to -enter on such a field of legislation or not. I say that this sentiment and this spirit of reform prevails In this country at this time more than ever before in the history of this Republic. I do not condemn such a spirit. but we ought to be wary and watchful. I am aware. too. Mr. Speaker. of another class of people who are in our Republic. who are daily. to my joy and satisfaction. growing less and less and fewer and fewer. and that is a class of men who. when they lear any declaration made about the ""rights of the States."" deride and condemn it and call it the "" specter of a discredited theory of states rights."" I rejoice to know that class of people are growing rapidly less in our country every day. The farther we get removed from the great struggle of 1861 to 1865. mens minds tre becoming clearer on that subject and frder from passion. Men indulge In such sentiments who ought to know better. and to know that a State has some exclusive rights. I can say here. Mr. Speaker. that since I have been a Member of this House I have heard as catholic. earnest. and broad declarations of the "" rights of States"" falling from the lips of northern Members of Congress as from any other section of this country. notably from the great State of Massachusetts. I recall now that which many of us remember who went down the Mississippi River with Mr. Taft from St. Louis to New Orleans. the wonderful speech that the able and distinguished Speaker of this House made at ""Natchez under the hill."" ""in the great State of Mississippi. the last resting place of the remains of the Immortal Sargeant S. Prentiss. There it was he statedin that southern State. In the presence of a splendid southern audience. in his vigorous and plain languagethat the future strength and glory and perpetuity of this Republic. as our fathers intended it. depended upon each State asserting its inherent and reserved rights. The people are being taught too much to look to the Federal Government for favor that the State should grant. And that is all that I ant here to speak for this afternoonwhat I believe an exclusive right of the Statethe control of the morals of the citizens of the different States. The point of this bill which I call specially to your attention is simply that paragraph which relates to traffic and trade among the States. and reads as follows: Any person who procures. or causes to be procured. or pays for. directly or indirectly. any ticket or other evidence or right of transportation whereby any person is enabled or assisted to go from one State or district into another. The balance of the bill relates to the functions of Congress over foreign commerce. I contend. Mr. Speaker. that that is a palpable. plain. unmistakable violation of the police power of the States of this Union. which began with the State. stays with the State. was never delegated and has remained in the State. is inherent. and will be with the State as long as our Constitution lives. Now. let us apply the very latest decision of the Supreme Court of the United States to that one paragraph. I am not going to discuss at length the question of bringing women over here from foreign countries. because I admit that Congress has supreme jurisdiction over that question. I desire here. now. Mr. Speaker. to. say that I do not controvert the exclusive provisions of this bill or the Mann bill of the right that Congress has over the importation of women or girls In foreign commerce. That Congress has the right and full authority to prevent and forbid inuoral women from debarking from foreign countries for our shores. can prohibit their entrance to our ports. can deport them if they entered our ports In violation of our immigration statutes. It is an unsettled question. if the alien woman or girl passes the scrutiny of our immigration laws. in no violation of the letter or spirit of the law. and enters our ports and becomes commingled with our citizens. what further control Congress under any circmnstances or mishaps has over her or.any citizen that mily have dealings with the alien. I shall pretermit that discussion at tils time. I beg leave. Mr. Speaker. briefly to call the attention of the House to the latest decision rendered by the Supreme Court of the United States which I think settles this bill and the Mann bill that is referred to in the report of the Immigration Committee. What does the Supreme Court say in the case of Keller against The United States (213 U. S.. 138). decided this year. April 5. 1909. and that is the latest denunciation of that great court. rendered by Justice Brewer?Congress has the power to exclude aliens from the United States. to prescribe the terms and conditions on which they may come in. to establish regulations for sending out of the country such aliens as have entered In violation of law. and to commit the enforcement of such conditions and regulations to executive officers. Bear in mind what the facts of this Keller case were when the Supreme Court made that utterance. and I contend that to apply the same facts here. or a parallel of facts. to this bill or to the Mann bill shows them both to be repugnant to the Constitution and an invasion by Congress of the internal police power of the .State. There it was in this case that an alien woman brought from another country was in a house of ill fame. and the man who was indicted. Keller. was charged under the federal law with having violated the law in protecting. assisting. and caring for an alien woman in a house of ill repute. that is. harboring her. What do you think would have been the consequences if an alien woman or girl brought from Germany or any other foreign port was admitted. an absolutely pure woman. and she should have the greatest of all misfortunes that can befall one of that sexto lose her good name? Would she be amenable within three years to be deported or to be punished by a federal statute? I want gentlemen to answer that question. Has she violated any law save that of a sovereign State? If she was keeping that house. unbecoming. disgraceful. and disreputable as it was. she was amenable alone to the police power of the State. This alien girl had not landed three years before. She had. only followed an immoral life for about ten months. and in that connection the court said: The act charged Is only one included In the great mass of personal dealings with aliens. It Is her own character and conduct which determines the question of exclusion or removal. The acts of others may be evidence of her business and character. But it does not follow that Congress has the power to punish those whose acts furnish evidence from which the Government may determine the question of her expulsion. Every possible dealing of any citizen with the alien may have more or less Induced her coming. lut can it be within the power of Congress to control all the dealings of our citizens with resident aliens? If that be possible. the door is open to the assumption by the National Government of an almost unlimited body of legislation. By the census of 1900 the population of the United States between the oceans was. in round numbers. 76.000.000. Of these. 10.000.000 were of foreign birth and 16.000.000 more were of foreign parentage. Doubtless some have become citizens by naturalization. but certainly scattered through the country there are millions of aliens. If the contention of the Government be sound. whatever may have been done in the past. howcver little this field of legislation may have been entered upon. the power of Congress is broad enough to take cognizance of all dealings of citizens with aliens. That there Is a moral consideration in the special facts of this case. that the act charged is within the scope of the police power. is immaterial . for. as stated. there is In the Constitution no grant to Congress of the police power. I ask. Mr. Speaker. under the above broad and comprehensivedefinition of the scope of police authority of the State. can the federal statute punish a citizen for a dealing or transaction with that alien woman. even If the alien woman could be deported on account of the house she was found? This bill asserts. as I understand it. there is no limit on the time for deportation of an alien woman. But I will not pursue that line any further. The court says. ""Every possible dealing of any citizen with the alien may have more or less induced her coming."" I ask you. Mr. Speaker. from your reading of this bill. when a man buys a railroad ticket to let a woman go fron one State to another State in the Union. is not that dealing with that woman. and is it not anact that the Supreme Court has held and condemned as being without the power of the Federal Government to punish? What is he doing? What is he engaged in? He is engaged in buying a ticket. which is a dealing or an act. I ask how many different acts of citizens may induce tlmit woman to take the curs and leave her State? Is the federal statute to punish all these citizens for helping to obstruct traffic and commerce be tween the States? That concerns him. and the Federal Government has no power to punish him for it. In that connection. Mr. Speaker. I put this question: We all know that morality and the control and regulation of morality Is a police power belonging to the State. It belongs to the States. They exercise it as they see proper. and I take occasion to say here. as the gentleman referred to the distinguished district attorney in Chicago who in the report had stated over his own signature that more than 250 convictions had taken place in the city of Chicago under the state law of Illinois within the last two years-"
