speech_id|speech
810161835|I move that the Senate take a recess until 12 oclock noon tomorrow.
810161836|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent that on Monday next. at the conclusion of the legislative program of the day and following any special orders heretofore entered. I may be permitted to address the House for 10 minutes. and that. following my address. the gentleman from New York be permitted to address the House for 20 minutes.
810161837|Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Texas?
810161838|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent that the special order granted my colleague the gentlemanfrom Connecticut for today may be put over until next Wednesday. or. if the House is not in session at that time. the immediately succeeding legislative day. and I further ask unanimous consent that on Tuesday next. at the conclusion of the legislative program of the day and following any special orders heretofore entered. I may be permitted to address the House for 10 minutes.
810161839|Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from New York?
810161840|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent to address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend my remarks.
810161841|Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Illinois?
810161842|Mr. Speaker. although a national emergency exists biy reason of the critical shortage of coal in this country. the President of the United States has thus far refused to act. although thoroughly informedas to the critical situation. - He has thus far failed to perform his paramount duty to protect the health. the welfare. and the economy of the people. even though in no uncertain terms the Congress of the United States has given him the power so to do. Homes. hospitals. churches. schools. and factories are being closed. It seems to me. Mr. Speaker. that the situation is so serious that the leaders of both political parties of the United States Senate and House of Representatives should call a joint meeting to devise ways and means making so clear to the President his duty as viewed by the Congress that at last he may be moved to act in relief of an emergency of which all the people are cognizant and which all suffer.
810161843|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent to address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend my remarks.
810161844|Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Illinois?
810161845|Mr. Speaker. Dr. Truman says our people are in bad health and need more medical attention. so he prescribes socialized medicine. Dr. Truman says many of our people live in crowded shacks. so he prescribes public housing as a remedy. Dr. Truman says our farmers do not know how to operate their farms. so he urges the Brannan plan to socialize and control the American farmer. Dr. Truman says when our workers are out of work they do not get enough unemployment compensation. so he prescribes larger and more generous unemployment payments. Dr. Truman says there Is widespread ignorance in the country. so he prescribes Federal aid for education. Dr. Truman says the States are unable and unwilling to secure civil liberties for their people. so he demands Federal laws to provide civil rights for all the people. Mr. Speaker. what we really need is a. new doctor who will prescribe less Government spending and lower taxes so that the people will have more of their money left in their own pockets to make their own welfare expenditures.
810161846|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent to address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend my remarks.
810161847|Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Illinois?
810161848|Mr. Speaker. last Monday a group of us..possibly 40 or 50 Senators and Members of this House. met with a group of retail coal dealers in the United States. We discussed the existing coal shortage. which is becoming increasingly acute and which is causing great hardship and suffering for thousands of innocent people. At that meeting. and in the many - letters we have been receiving from -home. we have had presented to us persuasive and compelling evidence that -the current strike in the coal industry imperils the national health and safety. .Those -present at the meeting agreed that the President should be formally advised of this fact and that he should be formally urged to invoke the nationalemergency provisions of the LaborManagement Relations Act. To this end a committee. composed of Senator FERGUSON. of Michigan. the gentleman from Michigan. Congressman WOLCOTT. and myself. were designated to prepare an appropriate resolution. Such a resolution was prepared and was introduced in the Senate yesterday by the distinguished junior Senator from Michigan. joined with several other distinguished Senators. I have today introduced an identical resolution in the House. Yesterday I sent each of you a mimeographed copy of it. together with an explanatory letter. I did not confine my communication to any particular section of the country or to the members of any one party. I sent it to all of you. While the acute coal shortage more severely affects some congressional districts than others. this grave national crisis is no less the concern of all of us. And. as I -stated in my letter to each of you on both sides of the aisle. I hope that many of you will introduce a like resolution as .an expression for the people of your district that you believe the President should exercise the powers vested in him by existing law to prevent a continuation of the current strike. It may be that the President does not like the law we are asking him to .Invoke. But let me remind you that he has used the nationalemergency provisions of it on nine previous occasions. It may be that some of you may not like the law. But let me remind you that on three separate occasions we voted for It with bipartisan support. The coalshortage situation confronting us today is.as grave and as critical as the other instances in which the President invoked the law. In three of the nine instances in which the President used the power given him by the law. it was not even necessary to obtain a court injunction to settle the dispute. In one of the instancesthat of the longlinestelephone strikeit was not even necessary for the board of inquiry. set up by the President in accordance with the provisions of the law. to file a report. In the interim the strike was settled. But in the case of the current coal controversy the President has not even so much as set up a board of inquiry. by which at the very least the facts in the dispute. including each partys position. can be ascertained. For reasons of his own. the President has ignored the existing situation. and we who represent the people owe it to the people we represent to indicate to the President the hardship and suffering our people are having to endure and to urge him to act. That is the purpose of my resolution and the one introduced yesterday in the Senate by several Senators. I hope I may have the full support of all of you. on both sides of the aisle. in securing favorable action on this resolution. You can assist by introducing a like resolution and by urging the Committee on Education and Labor to report it immediately.
810161849|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent to address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend my remarks.
810161850|Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Washington?
810161851|"Mr. Speaker. a few months ago the people of the Pacific Northwest were shocked beyond words by the announcement of the military that that area generally. and Puget Sound specifically. were vulnerable to enemy attack. The announcement proposed that thereafter a major portion of the aircraft construction would be transferred from the Boeing S)attle plant to the Wichita. Kans.. plant. The effect of such proposal was tantamount to the militarys saying. ""The Pacific Northwest is not adequately fortified to defend itself against enemy attack. You do not have sufficient defense installations. In the event of enemy action you would be vulnerable. Your people would be without adequate protection."" The droppping of a bomb itself could hardly have startled the people of that region more. Mr. Speaker. the result of the announcement of the military has been a call to arms to the people of the Pacific Northwest. They are thoroughly aroused. They do not intend to sit idly by and permit their region and themselves to be relegated to the position of expendables. They are perfectly willing to sacrifice themselves and everything they have in the defense of our Nation. but I assure you that they strenuously resent receiving insufficient consideration in the matter of adequate defense installations. The people recall full well the contribution of their area during both world wars in the building of ships and planes. despite their socalled vulnerability. The record then established has been unsurpassed anywhere. The announcement of the military is not without its implications. If the area is so vulnerable what will happen to those other industries which produce essential and militarily strategic supplies? Will they too be moved from the region? Not only is the personal security of the people involved. but their economic security and wellbeing also. Removal of Industries would bring widespread unemployment and distress to thousands of men and women. The effect upon the entire region would be calamitous. Mr. Speaker. the solution to the problem of possble vulnerability lies not in the removal of industries from an area of such importance and size as the Northwest. It lies rather in the installation of adequate defense facilities. I confess that I am not a military expert. but it strikes me that if people must run from the Northwest in the event of another war. so also must they run from all of our coastal and border areas. In this day of guided missiles and modern longrange bombers. which section of the United States is more secure than any other? Every section is entitled to equal consideration and protection. I trust that the military will reconsider their decision."
