speech_id|speech
1060113365|Mr. President. I was informed that the vote on the Greenspan nomination would be at 6 p.m. on Wednesday. so I had rearranged my schedule to return to my State. As I am unable to be present for the 10:30 a.m. Thursday vote. I ask that the RECORD show that if I were present to vote. I would vote in favor of confirming Alan Greenspan for another term as Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors.
1060113366|Mr. President. I want the RECORD to show that I ask unanimous consent to be excused from voting on Thursday and Friday of this week. I am leaving for the West Coast for a matter of urgent personal concern in connection with the airline crash. and I will not be here to vote. I want the RECORD to show why I am not here.
1060113367|Without objection. the RECORD will so reflect.
1060113368|Mr. President. I rise to speak about the crisis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In that devastated country. we see one of the worst international crises of the last decade. It is a bloody and brutal conflict. one that has drawn country after country into an unwinnable struggle. one that has cost the lives of thousands of civilians and has displaced hundreds of thousands more. and one about which this body has been strangely quiet. Congos conflict is as complex as it is destructive. It is born of the long absence of any semblance of political legitimacy in the government of that battered state. it is fed by the horrifying legacy of the Rwandan genocide. and it is intensified by the constant struggle for resources and wealth in the region. The litany of the causes of the war in Congo is a catalogue of the problems that plague the heart of Africa. Its outcome will likely determine the course of the regions future. Mr. President. we need to wake up and realize that the U.S. has a stake in that future. Our interests in global peace and stability. the rule of law. and respect for basic human rights are bound up in Congos future. Africans and their potential American trading partners can have no hope of realizing Africas vast economic potential until the regions cycles of violence come to an end. And America urgently needs to stop the spread of infectious disease. to address environmental degradation. and to build a global coalition to fight international crimebut these needs cannot be met without stability in central Africa. And Mr. President. global forces of instability will thrive. and their insidious influence will grow. when parties to the conflict in Congo turn to them. in desperation. for support. Mr. President. central Africas leaders know that the region cannot prosper while the war in the D.R.C. continues. For that reason. last summer the parties to the conflict signed a blueprint for ending the conflictthe Lusaka Agreement. That Agreement calls for an end to the fighting. for a free political dialogue within Congo. and lays out the path to the withdrawal of foreign forces. Mr. President. I traveled to many of the countries involved in the crisis at the end of last year. In Angola. Zimbabwe. and Namibia. in Uganda and Rwanda. and in the D.R.C. itself. I personally heard heads of state acknowledge the importance of making the Lusaka Agreement work. They understand the challenge before them. the precious opportunity embodied by Lusaka. Last week the parties to the Congo conflict renewed their commitment to the Lusaka Agreement in a series of extraordinary meetings at the United Nations in New York. They have all agreed to a facilitator. former President Masire of Botswana. to move the interCongolese dialogue forward. And all parties have called for a strengthening of the Joint Military Commission that is at the heart of the framework for peace. Mr. President. just as the U.S. has a stake in the outcome. the United States also has a role to play in supporting these efforts. The U.N. has already deployed a small team of liaison officers to the scene. Now. the United Nations Secretary General has issued a report laying out the next phase of U.N. involvement. It calls for the deployment of 500 monitors. with a 5.000strong force providing security and logistical support to their mission. They will have a robust mandate that ensures their ability to protect themselves. Mr. President. none of the troops would be American. and that is as it should be. In fact. in my meetings with heads of state in the region. I explicitly asked about their expectations with regard to American troops. and I can report that no one has visions of a large American presence on the ground in Congo. But by creating the breathing room necessary to allow the belligerents to move toward peace. these troops will serve American interests. The U.N. SecretaryGeneral has endorsed a good plan. Its value comes. in part. from what it does not do. The U.N. does not plan to send tens of thousands of troops into Congo to impose peace on hostile parties. Nor does the U.N. intend to stand by while the most brutal elements in Congo seize power through violence and impose their will on civilians. Instead. the plan that has emerged in New York harnesses international support to the commitment of the parties to the conflict. It recognizes that the only viable peace to be found in Congo is a peace created by the belligerent parties themselves. It acknowledges African responsibility for this African war. and strengthens the Joint Military Commission created by combatants when they signed the Lusaka accords. At the same time. this plan ensures that the international community does not turn its back on Africa. There can be no doublestandard. whereby African conflicts are measured by a different scale than that used for conflicts in Europe or Asia. The plan for the deployment of the monitors and their supporting team has been vetted as thoroughly as any U.N. project. The stakesin terms of human life and regional stabilityare unquestionably high enough to meet the threshold for international action. Now. the U.N. has an opportunity to get it right in Congo. Supporting this U.N. mission is the least we should do to secure our interests and fulfill our responsibilities as responsible members of the international community. Should we fail to support it. should we ignore this terrible conflict any longer. we will weaken the international communitys mechanisms for burdensharing at the dawn of this new century. And we will lose an opportunity to reinforce a model for ending conflict and embracing a better future. I want to say. because obviously this has to be true and I am concerned about it. that the plan is not guaranteed to succeed. Little worth attempting ever is. Zambian President Frederick Chiluba was right when he said. last week. that no peacekeeping operation anywhere in the world is riskfree. But Mr. President. this is the best chance for shoring up the Lusaka Agreement and helping African states to end the conflict that we are likely to see. I strongly urge my colleagues to look at this program that is being suggested and to give it their support.
1060113369|Mr. President. at the close of business yesterday. Tuesday. February 1. 2000. the Federal debt stood at $5.702.651.446.667.03 (Five trillion. seven hundred two billion. six hundred fiftyone million. four hundred fortysix thousand. six hundred sixtyseven dollars and three cents). One year ago. February 1. 1999. the Federal debt stood at $5.588.099.000.000 (Five trillion. five hundred eightyeight billion. ninetynine million). Five years ago. February 1. 1995. the Federal debt stood at $4.810.860.000.000 (Four trillion. eight hundred ten billion. eight hundred sixty million). Ten years ago. February 1. 1990. the Federal debt stood at $2.994.932.000.000 (Two trillion. nine hundred ninetyfour billion. nine hundred thirtytwo million). Fifteen years ago. February 1. 1985. the Federal debt stood at $1.672.555.000.000 (One trillion. six hundred seventytwo billion. five hundred fiftyfive million) which reflects a debt increase of more than $4 trillion$4.030.096.446.667.03 (Four trillion. thirty billion. ninetysix million. four hundred fortysix thousand. six hundred sixtyseven dollars and three cents) during the past 15 years.
