speech_id|speech
560042084|How much time have I left. Mr. Chairman?
560042085|The gentleman has fortyseven minutes.
560042086|I yield to the gentleman from Michigan [Mr. Wm. ALDEN SMITH] five minutes. Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. Mr. Chairman. the gentleman from Tennessee . in undertaking to justify the free trade in wool under the Wilson law. and in undertaking to criticise the effects of the Dingley tariff upon the wool industry. read into the RECORD this morning some statements of advanced prices of wool in Europe. saying that the advanced prices in our country were not proportionate. Now. I desire to invite the attention of the gentleman from Tennessee to some figures in the United States Statistical Abstract. just published. and which I hold in my hand. I find that in the last year of the Administration of President Harrison the value of the sheep in the United States was $125.909.264. that immediately upon the enactment of the Wilson law. giving us free trade in wool. the value of the sheep in the United States dropped from $125.000.000 down to $66.685.767 in 1895. and just as soon as the Dingley law was enacted and there was placed around the wool industry of this country the protection that has always been accorded to it by the Republican party. the value of the sheep of the United States mounted from $66.000.000 to $107.697.530 in 1899. and a less number of sheep than in 1895. Thus. Mr. Chairman. I am able to show from the records of the Governmentfacts which are indisputablethat the value of the sheep of the United States was nearly doubled when protected under the rates of the Dingley tariff. As to the effects of the Dingley law upon commercial development and the prosperity of our country. I do not believe there can be any question but that it has been healthful and that there are evidences upon all sides of great prosperity. and in order that I may place upon the record some evidence of the prosperity that we have enjoyed under the Dingley tariff in the State of Michigan and are now enjoying. I send to the Clerks desk and ask to have read a bulletin from the bureau of labor and industry in the State of Michigan. prepared by Hon. Joseph L. Cox. labor commissioner. this year. I ask unanimous consent that this document may be read and published in the RECORD. It completely negatives the proposition on the other side of the Chamber that we have not had prosperity under the Dingley law.
560042087|You said I denied that there had been prosperity. Mr: WM. ALDEN SMITH. That is what you said.
560042088|I deny it. Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. You undertook a few moments ago to say here that the prices in Europe had advanced in greater proportion than they had in this country under the Dingley tariff -
560042089|I did not say that. and the gentleman ought not to ialte any such statement. Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. Do you admit that we have prosperity here?
560042090|I have not said anything on that subject. Mr. WA. ALDEN SMITH. Do you deny that we have prosperity here?
560042091|Oh. you can not bulldoze anybody. Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. If you do not admit the fact. then I propose to read and put in the RECORD the proof of the fact.
560042092|Time was yielded to the gentleman by this side of the HouseMr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. Certainly you do not wish to avoid the fact?
560042093|There have been no facts stated. Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. I wish to read some facts to the gentleman.
560042094|You have made a statement which I challenge. You said that I had made some statement about the prosperity of the country. I made no such statement. My point is that I made no such statement as that which the gentleman in his elegant language has denounced as a lie. I wanted simply to say that I had not said what he attributed to me. Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. I have the highest respect for the gentleman from Tennessee. and would not intentionally misrepresent him. I do not wish to put into the gentlemans mouth anything which he did not utter. but I understood him to say that the Dingley law had brought no prosperity to the wool industry of the United States.
560042095|I said that the Dingley law had not increased the price of wool in this country correspondingly with the increase abroad. That was my statement. Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. Then I say that the value of the sheep in the United States has nearly doubled under the Dingley law.
560042096|Will the gentleman state the number of sheep? ir. WM. ALDEN SMITH. Yes. I have the figures here.
560042097|Have you the price of sheep abroad as well as here? Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. I have not.
560042098|If you wish to publish that. I have no objection. Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH. I ask unanimous consent that what I have sent to the desk be read or. if my time will not permit the reading. that it be published in the RECORD.
560042099|The time of the gentleman from Michigan has expired. He asks unanimous consent that the paper which he has sent to the Clerks desk may be incorporated with his remarks in the RECORD. Is there objection?
560042100|No. sir. I have not the time. The document presented by Mr. WM. ALDEN SMITH is as follows:
560042101|"Mr. Chairman. I was in hopes that this appropriation would go through without precipitating any political debate. but as we are now engaged in such debate I wish to put myself on record as saying that the extravagance of this Administration has no parallel. And I do not say it because this is a Republican Administration. but because events establish the charge. The Administration before it may have gone along the same lines. but this one has surpassed all others. I care not from what Administration extravagance comes. I condemn it. and every man on this floor ought to condemn it. Now. if the gentleman from Indiana is really anxious for an item of extravagance. I will give him one. With the very beginning of the Administration. immediately after the election. the newspapers stated. and I suppose correctly. that Mr. HANNA. the chairman of the national Republican committee. came here and insisted that we sriould have a great inaugural ball in the new Library building. The Senate absolutely. refused to permit an inaugural ball to take place in that great Library building. Then Mr. HANNA. so the press of this city said. went to the Secretary of the Interior and said to him. ""We want an inaugural ball in the Pension Office of the United States."" The Secretary of the Interior said. ""Yes. you may have it."" Then hesaid. I II want possession of the Pension Office that we may properly decorate it. that we may have a becoming inaugural ball for President McKinley."" It was conceded. The employees of that office. numbering hundreds. were given leave. with pay. for ten days. and after the inaugural ball it took days for the force to get the furniture and everything in place again. Not only the papers of this city but the papers of the country stated these facts. The Star. of this city. as I recollect it. interviewed Mr. Murphy. the Commissicner of Pensions. and said. ""The people of the United States would like to know what the expense of that ball to the people ofthis country has been."" Mr. Murphy. over his signature. published in the Star. as I remember it. a statement saying. ""1 can not give you the whole expense. I can not give you the wear and tear and the cost of cleaning up. but 1 can say to you that the salaries of the employe6§ who were laid off during that time cost this Government $70.000."" Now. you may call that extravagance or economy. From that day until this. I want to say that the extravagance here has beeu in keeping with the beginning. and it is something that must be stopped. I do not care what the name of the Administration is. it is so unnatural and so reckless that this whole machinery is honeycombed from the sills to the garret with wanton extravagance. Coining before our committee. the Commissioner of Pensions. Mr. Evans. said he could lay off a hundred clerks in thl Pension Office and not injure the service one particle. Pension Commissioner Evans says that he has on his roll a surplus of worthless men to the number of 100 whom he could put out of office and not injure the public service. He not only said that. but he said that there were men there so worthless that they were really in the way. that they could hardly get to the office. It came to our committee that in the Treasury Department they had any number of men who were practically worthless. It not only came to us about these two Departments. but the chairman of the Committee on the PostOffice and PostRoads. in one of his reports on the Loud bill. says that from his investigation a private individual could undoubtedly run the PostOffice Department of this Government on the appropriation and realize a surplus of thirty to forty million dollars a year instead of a deficit of from $8.000.000 to $12.000.000."
560042102|Mr. Speaker. I ask the consent of the House that the resolution just reported be taken up and acted upon at once. In listening to the reading of the resolution members must have observed the necessity for immediate action.
560042103|What is the resolution about?
560042104|It is to correct a word in the diplomatic and consular appropriation bill.
560042105|The Clerk will report the resolution. The resolution as set forth in the above message from the Senate was read.
560042106|I move the adoption of the resolution.
560042107|Is there objection to the present consideration of the resolution?
560042108|Now. Mr. Chairman. you may go into any department of this Government where you have a friend. and he will point out to you where there are untold leaks and money expended for which the people of the United States do not get value received. You can come to the contingent expenses of Congress. and you will find that you can lop off many thousands of dollars in a year. Money is constantly being filched from the people of the United States without their knowledge and applied to pexsonal as well as public purposes. When it comes to a public servant having his face shaved and his boots blackened at the public expense. when it comes to his being furnished with medicines. lemons. apollinaris and mineral waters atthe public expense. and having himself hauled to and from this Capitol at public expense. I say it is filching the money from the people of the United States. and that you and I are not justified in sitting here and seeing it go on.
560042109|My friend will not insist that any such thing occurs at this end of the Capitol.
560042110|"I will say to the gentleman that we often get credit for it. The other day I saw the statement in a newspaper from my district saying that the members of Congress got their faces shaved. their boots blackened. and their heads rubbed at the expense of the people working for a living throughout the country. I wrote the editor that in this House we did not receive these perquisites. that we had a great many things to answer for. but not that. but I sent him the report of the application of the contingent fund of another Chamber and allowed him to draw his own conclusions. And while we are talking for the good of the order today. I want to say to you that you are not justified and I am not justified in sitting here and saying that one body or the other of this Congress has the right to expend the peoples money without limit. or constitute itself into a House of Lords. without you and I know .vhere it goes or enter our protest against the abuse. Do not tell me that an executive officer of this body or the one at the other end of this building has the right to have a line of carriages drive up here and take us from here to our residences and from our residences back at the public expense. You might as well stick your hand into the Treasury of the United States and pull out the actual cash. Now. if my friends say that is economy. then I say that I do not know the meaning of wanton extravagance. It is not only extravagance. but it is criminal. Read some of the reports under the head of ""Contingent expenditures."" I have no doubt we could find a good many unjust and unauthorized items that could be traced to our doors. Not only that. but I do not want my friends to say that I am responsible for these great expenditures that we are now making in the War Department. I do not refer to this bill. because this is a coastdefense bill and the expenditure should have been made regardless of the war. I was not one of the very belligerent fellows in the days of excitement here. I was not rearing and pitching to go to war. I never wanted any Philippine war. so far as I was concerned. When I get ready to rear and scramble for war. I will be Ynan enough to offer to take up a gun and go along with the boys on the field. I have always objected to the idea of so conducting what you call the accidents of war. which are not accidents. as to increase our expenditures to this enormous sum. Now. I do not claim to be responsible for the war in the Philippines. I believe it is owing to a lack of diplomacy that that war is now going on. I believe that if at the time we went to the Philippine Islands we had come up like men. and had acted toward the Filipinos as we did toward the Utes. or the Cheyennes. or the Comanche Indians. and conferred with their chieftains or leaders. everything would have been all right and there would never have been a gun fired. But as soon as Aguinaldo learned of the conflict he pronounced it a mistake. not intentional on his part. and insisted upon a conference. Our officers said. ""We will accept nothing but an unconditional laying down of your arms."" Aguinaldo said. ""What are you going todo? Thatis what we want to know."" GeneralOtis refused to tell him what he was going to do. but demanded that he lay down his arms at our feet and say. ""Now. do with us what you will. we are at your mercy."" We never demanded that of an American Indian. We never demanded that of any people except the Filipinos. We fired the first gun. and we have been firing ever since. I believe it was a mistake. I believe that with diplomacy that could have been avoided. Now. sir. we are in this expensive turmoil. and I have never withheld my support from anything or from any item that was necessary to carry on the Government according to the ideas of those in control. I do not think that I have the right to do it. I think if we have a government of majorities. and the majority of the people declare for one party and policy. it is the duty of every member of the minority to see that they have a fair opportunity to try their policy. that they have a fair opportunity to put it in force. and let the people judge of the wisdom of it in the future. We have done that. and. having done that. we are not responsible for what is going on. The ideas of the majority and minority of this House are as different as night and day. One says. ""These are our lands and property. and we must keep them. we will keep them."" The other says. ""We do not want them. we can not own a people against their consent under the regis of our Constitution. we want the convenience of trade. we want shipping conveniences. we want trade favors. but we want to make you responsible and hold you responsible for your own government and for your own destiny."" With our policy we do not need your great army. with your policy the Arny will never be less than it is today. IntheUnited States a soldier. in times of peace. costs about $1.000 a year. You can figure the difference between 25.000 soldiers and 100.000 soldiers without any trouble in times of peace. and may double and quadruple it in times of war. Now. our friend. Mr. SHITH of Michigan. is speaking about the increased price of sheep and wool and such matters and the causes of the rise. they always become confusing. Such arguments are illogical. there is nothing in them. These things vibrate on account of the evolution of time and changing conditions. and they are unaccountable from any single cause. but when you talk about the value of sheep. the same reasoning would apply to cows. chickens. etc.. and if the McKinley Administration doubled the price of sheep. I might tell my farmer friends that it also doubled the price of fencewire nails. If it doubled the price of wool. I want to say it also doubled the price of iron and steel products. it has doubled the price of a thousand and one things. -The culmination of trusts under this Administration has doubled the price of a thousand and one things. One thing is going up and another thing going down. and every one who has come into contact with the stock business knows that J. Sterling Morton. Secretary of Agriculture. reported a decline in the stock business. and the stock began to rise as the report showed that we were short in the United States over 8.000.000 head. Last year Mr. Mulhall. in one of his exhaustive articles. takes up everything in America and shows our progress. He shows where we have progressed all along the line until he comes to stock. and he says that we have declined in a very few years 25 per cent. While we have increased in other things. he puts great stress upon the fact that the people of the United States have declined in tie stock business 25 per cent below normal. That is because the ranges have been fenced in. because we have taken the herds out of the neutral strip. and the great ranges of the West have been taken up and cultivated. I do not care to go into this further. What I desired to talk about was the general proposition of the extravagance of the Government. It can not run much longer as it has run without a great national scandal overtaking us. The thing is now recklesslyabsolutely recklesslyrun from the highest to the lowest Department. Men in office are acting as though they own the Government. instead of being its servants and in the employ of the. Government. They are entitled to nothing except what the law gives them for their services. and I care not whether that reaches into Mr. Clevelands Administration. into Mr. Harrisons Administration. Mr. McKinleys Administration. or anybodys to follow. I am ready to join any party in this House in insisting that not a dollar here or elsewhere shall be expended except as the law requires. whether it is for my convenience or for yours. Now. Mr. Chairman. I desire to yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from Massachusetts ."
560042111|The chairman of the Committee on Appropriations. in charge of this fortification bill. stated a few moments ago that as a matter of general policy the Democratic party had failed to provide any appropriations for fortifications. I have just glanced over a report that has been submitted to me by the clerk of the Committee on Appropriations himself.
560042112|Will the gentleman yield to me for a moment?
560042113|Certainly.
560042114|I have not stated that the Democratic party failed to make any appropriations whatever.
560042115|The gentlemans proposition. as I understood it. was that they had been opposed to appropriations and failed to make them.
560042116|I stated that the average of appropriations made by Democratic Congresses was very much below the averages made by Republican Congresses since the adoption of the Endicott scheme.
560042117|The gentleman has qualified his statement from what he first said. as I understand. But for the sake of historical accuracy. I want to quote the appropriations for fortifications that have been made for several years. In the Fortyseventh Congress. which I believe was a Republican Congress. and I desire to be corrected if I am in error. in 1683. the amount appropriated was $375.000. The Fortyeighth Congress. a Democratic Congress. in 1885. appropriated $700.000. There was no fear of war at that time. The Fiftieth Congress. a Democratic Congress. appropriated $3.972.000. and was the first large appropriation ever made by Congress for fortifications in the history of this Government. I think. Mr. Chairman. if these figures are correct-
560042118|Will the gentleman from Massachusetts allow me a question?
560042119|Was not that large appropriation the first made after the adoption of the Endicott system of coast defenses?
560042120|If that is so. it further contradicts the gentleman from Indiana. who stated that the Democratic party refused or neglected to carry out the recommendations of the Endicott board.
560042121|Will the gentleman give the appropriations made by the Fiftythird and Fiftyfourth Congresses?
560042122|The Fiftythird Congress appropriated $2.427.004. and the Fiftysecond Congress appropriated $2.734.000.
560042123|Compare that with the appropriations in the Fiftyfourth Congress.
560042124|As the gentleman knows. the controversy in regard to Cuba had been going on for a great many years. and the agitation had set forth in every city the necessity of increasing the appropriations for fortifications. and I know that when I came to Congress in the Fiftyfourth Congress. I was bombarded with letters from the Merchants Association in Boston. and from the Chamber of Commerce there. and for the different interests. which insisted that Congress should make suitable appropriations for fortifications in the event of a war with Spain. Everybody kmew and realized for three or four years previous to the actual declaration of hostilities that war with Spain must be had. And when the gentleman cites the fact that in the Fiftyfourth and Fiftyfifth Congresses. when war was imminent. the appropriations increased. he knows that it was with no opposition of the Democratic party. but with the aid of every Democratic vote. The gentleman also knows that the other side of the House has not a patent in this Congress or a monopoly on patriotism. and although these vast expenditures of money have been made under Republican administration and the Administration has been able to reward its favorites by appointments to the Army service and the naval service and in the different branches of the service. no opposition to the proper maintenance of the Government or a proper support of the war has been offered on this side of the House.
560042125|Is the gentleman aware of the fact that on the deficiency bills and out of the $50.000.000 put in the hands of the President for war purposes. twentyone millions was expended for coast defenses. that being the sum made necessary by the war? The other amounts were carried on the regular appror riation billthat is. seven millions for 1897. nine and a half milions for 1898. nine and a half millions for 1899and the twentyone millions was in addition to that.
560042126|I do not deny that statement.
560042127|But the gentleman says that the amount carried by the regular appropriation bills was brought about by the danger of the war with Spain. I am calling his attention to the fact that twentyone millions was outsideof the appropriation bills and made necessary by the preparation for war.
560042128|Everyone knowsthatthe $21.000.000 was not spent until war was actually declared. and to stand up here and say that there was not an agitation. spreading over the country in regard to war for two years. that there was no agitation for two years before war was actually declared. is simply absurd.
560042129|It is by reason of that fact that the twentyone millions was expended. and had nothing to do with the regular amounts carried on tho appropriation bill.
560042130|The gentleman does not seem to grasp my point. I may be deficient in language. The $50.000.000 was for an emergency. and $21.000.000 of that money was spent after the war had been declared.
560042131|lam not criticising the gentlemans patriotism at all. I say the amounts carried on the regular appropriation bills was not brought about by any danger of war and that the only amount that was expended by reason of danger of war was the $21.000.000.
560042132|Well. Mr. Chairman. I do not intend to discuss that line of inquiry any further. The gentleman knows that war was threatened for four years and that it became necessary. whether the Congress was Democratic or Republican. to increase the appropriations. and I call the gentlemans attention to the fact that in the Fiftieth Congress. a Democratic Congress. they appropriated almost $4.000.000. The gentleman made a statementI do not think he intended itthat the Democratic party had refused to carry out the recommendation of the Endicott board and refused to make appropriations for it. I call his attention to the fact that a Democratic Congress was the first one to make a large appropriation of over three million and a half dollars. when the largest amount appropriated by the Republican Congress before that was $735.000. This is the official record of the Secretary of the Treasury.
560042133|If the gentleman will yield. I will ask unanimous consent to put into the RECORD as a part of my remarks a statement of the expenditures since the adoption of the present system of fortifications.
560042134|I have no objection to the publication of that statement.
560042135|The gentleman from Indiana asks unanimous consent to publish with his remarks in the RECORD a statement of expenditures for fortifications during the period he has named. Is there objection? The Chair hears none.
560042136|Mr. Chairman. as I stated before. and the statement has been made by others on the floor of this House. the Democratic party is just as patriotic as the Republican party. and so far as my observation has gone since I have been a member of this House. it is just as willing to sustain the Government in time of war as the Republican party is. As was said by the gentleman from Tennessee . the honored leader on this side of the House. the Democratic party has never made any opposition to any appropriations that were deemed necessary by the Republican Administration for the carrying on of the war. they have been willing that the Republican Administration should take the responsibility in this matter. and the Republican party must abide by the result. But when the gentleman from Indiana states that there has not been any extravagance. I can say that there has been extravagance in the War Department. in the conduct of that Department. during this war. and the figures. if they are analyzedI have not time to analyze them this afternoonwill show this statement to be true. In connection with this subject. I notice that as part of the Army appropriation bill there is appropriated this year for pay of officers on the retired list and officers who may be placed on the retired list during the current year. $1.273.000. I am as good a friend of the soldier as any man in this House. but I say that this is an extravagant item. and such an expenditure is not justified by the facts.
560042137|The figures which the gentleman has just given constitute the amount necessary to be appropriated for the pay of those officers who have been or may be placed on the retired list in pursuance of law. An appropriation of that amount had to be made or the law repealed.
560042138|In answer to the gentleman from Iowa. I will say that this large expenditure is caused by the fact that. as the gentleman from Illinois has stated here. men have been promoted for the very purpose of placing them on the retired list at an advanced salary-
560042139|That matter constitutes but a very small part of the sum appropriated. only the difference in these cases between threefourths of the pay of a colonel and threefourths of the pay of a brigadiergeneral. Now. I want to ask my friend whether he does not believe that a man who served through the civil war. who served his country in all the Indian wars. and then in his old age served through the Spanish war. and never got beyond the grade of colonel because there was no vacancy ahead of him to which he could be appointedwhether such a man has not earned from his country promotion to the rank of brigadiergeneral that he might be retired as such?
560042140|I do not undertake to answer that question in a general way. I can only say that the record as given by the gentleman from Illinois showsand I do not think the people will sustain such a condition of affairsthat men were promoted. their rank was increased in this way. and then after they had served in their new grade. in some instances three days. in other instances less than a week. and in other instances less than a month. they were retired. and received the additional pay consequent upon that promotion.
560042141|They -were promoted for the express purpose of having a higher grade on the retired list.
560042142|With higher pay than they would otherwise have received.
560042143|Did not President Cleveland make promotions the same way for the same purpose?
560042144|I am not defending the Administration of President Cleveland any more than any other Administration. I say the practice is wrong. The gentleman from Colorado said a while ago that the people of the country will
560042145|At the last session of the Fiftyfifth Congress we passed a law under which every officer who served in the Navy during the civil war should. when retired. be retired at one grade higher than that which he had held in lineal rank. Does not the gentleman believe that such a law would be fair as applied to officers of the Army who served through the civil war and have rendered constant service since? Is it not fair that they should be retired at one grade higher than their regular rank in order that they might be placed upon an equality in this respect with officers of the Navy?
560042146|"Iam not familiar enough with the subject to give an answer to that question. I donotknow whether the salaries for correspondinggrades in the higher offices of the Army and the Navy are the same. But I know this muchthat when a man enlistsin the Army he is given his clothing and his outfit free. but when he enlists in the Navy it takes about three months salary to pay for his uniform. etc. If that same system is carried on through other departments of the naval service. then I think that legislation giving this increased rank and pay upon retirement in the Navy is proper. But. as I stated before. I do not think that matter is relevant to this discussion. Now. in regard to the era of ""Republican prosperity"" which has been referred to as existing in all sections of the country. and as to the manner in which the Republican party has administered the affairs of this country. I wish only to make this observation and not to enter into any extended discussion: While the gentleman from Michigan was indicating a moment ago the great ""prosperity"" which existed throughout the country. I came across a little item from Duns Weekly Review of today. stating that the number of business failures last week was 203. an increase of 11 over the corresponding period of last year. Let me say also that in other sections of the country this wonderful ""prosperity"" which has been depicted on the floor of the House does not exist. and I am informed that business in a great many lines in Boston is at a low ebb. I also commend to my friends on the other side of the House who glory in the wave of ""prosperity"" that is claimed to have been caused in this country. and what they have accomplished in the last four or five years. the trust question as something that needs solving. I do not think that any great party which is in power in this House and in the Senate and in the Executive Mansion can go before the people of this country and tell them that it is impossible to frame laws which will prevent corporations of this land from making $80.000.000 a year on a capitalization of $100.000.000. as is the case with Standard Oil. and so increase prices as to make an advance of 3 cents a gallon on the oil used by every poor family in the land. or prevent a condition of affairs such as was instanced in the late CarnegieFrick deal. where it was shown that $40.000.000 was to be made this year on a capitalization of $25.000.000. and where there has been a reorganization in which one of the members stands for an amount equivalent to $186.000.000. when it is a wellestablished fact that a great deal less than $100.000.000 is put in as cash in the plant. How do my Republican friends intend to answer this question when they go before the people this fall? Will they satisfy the people by pointing out that wages have been raised in some lines. that our exports have increased. and that some mills are running night and day? Any prosperity based upon trusts is fictitious prosperity and can not last. and the gentlemen on the other side of the House must realize this as well as I do. Three years ago. by reason of the destruction of the wheat crop in South America and Asia. our farmers received excellent prices for their wheat. The good prices received at that time have been the basis of the good times of the past few years. How much has the Dingley bill raised the price of wheat the past two years? Is it not a fact that wheat is cheaper today than for some time? If this is so. and the farming population represent the greater portion of the people of this country. and they are getting low prices for farm products while the trusts and monopolies have increased tremendously the cost of farming implements as well as everything they eat and wear. how long will this prosperity last? Nearly every commodity in this country today is controlled by a trust. and to say that the people can con-. tinue to prosper when dividends must be paid on stock watered. in some cases. a thousand per cent. is to convict the American people of insanity. Gentlemen on the other side of the House know that never in the history of the world have corporations and monopolies been allowed to exist and thrive and extort money from the people as they have been in this country during the last three or four years and as they are doing now right under our noses today. For any party in the control of the Government. in any branch of the service. to laud what it has done in the last three or four years. and then to say that Congress is unable and has not the power to restrict these combinations. is to insult the intelligence of the American people and term government of the people. for the people. and by the people a farce. [Loud applause.]"
560042147|Mr. Chairman. I move that we read the bill.
560042148|I was about to make that request.
560042149|proceeding with the reading of the bill. read as foll0wg: For construction of a sea wall and for necessary filling in at the reservation at Fort Caswell. N. C.. $150.000.
560042150|Mr. Chairman. I wish a few moments in which to refer to a statement made by the gentleman from Ter.nessee and also to a paper which he asked to print in the RECORD.
560042151|Now. Mr. Chairman. I think it is our duty to object to any outside debate under the fiveminute rule. I shortened up my time in order that we might get through early today. I am perfectly willing. after finishing the bill. that the gentleman may address the House.
560042152|Will you not yield five minutes to the gentleman?
560042153|I hope my friend will let the gentleman have five minutes.
560042154|I will object to the next request of this kind.
560042155|The gentleman from Massachusetts asks unanimous consent to speak for five minutes.
560042156|I withdraw my objection.
560042157|I wish to refer to a statement made by the gentleman from Tennessee . and also to a paper which lie asked to have printed in the RECORD. I do not think he meant to deceive himself. nor do I think he intended to mislead the House in anything that he said. or in anything that he found in the papers. He made one statement. however. which calls for an answer. and that is that under the Dingley tariff the price of wool has increased more abroad than in this country. I am willing to concede this. but I wish to say that the reasons for it are apparent to everyone who has studied the question. and they do not in any way reflect upon the great prosperity enjoyed under the Dingley tariff. It is a fact that between the election in November. 1896. and the passage of the Dingley Act. in 1897. enough wool was imported into this country to meet the requirements of our manufacturers for two and a half years. It is a fact that woolen goods enough to last the country for two and a half years were also imported. Every storehouse in the neighborhood of a woolen mill or a woolen center was crowded and stored with wool. Since then wool has been exported from this country to Europe and sold in the London market. and the fact that the price of wool just at this moment shows an increase of 54 per cent abroad and only 36 per cent at home is not remarkable. This country consumes somewhere in the neighborhood of 600.000.000 pounds of wool each year. The importations of wool between November. 1890. and the passage of the Dingley Act in 1897. added to the home production of wool for the following two and a half years was fully 1.500.000.000 pounds. In the months immediately preceding the enactment of the Dingley law the markets of the world were stripped of wool and woolen goods. which were hurried into this country and thrown upon the American markets. producing stagnation. We are only just now getting to the end of this supply. and are beginning to feel the benefit of the Dingley tariff. Any man who is in business or who has anything to do with the woolen business understands why it is that the prices of some wools abroad are higher than they are in our own markets. That is all I desire to say.
