speech_id|speech
760268681|On this roll call 306 Members have answered to their names. A quorum is present. .On motion of Mr. LEWIS of Colorado. further proceedings under the call were dispensed with.
760268682|Mr. Speaker. continuing where I left off. do you not think that the large and substantial group of men and women engaged in the great industry of producing wool in this country is entitled to the fair protection afforded under the terms of this legislation? They are willing to meet competition when that competition is fair and square. open. and aboveboard. But they should not be required to meet competition of any individual or group of individuals who sell imitations and substitutes of their own products in the name of the genuine article. In fairness and decency to the great woolproducing industry of this country this measure ought to be enacted into law. Labor wants this measure. Unfair competition by reason of the importations have been described. Furthermore. dependable merchandise manufactured by organized labor. is sold in unfair competition with shoddy products. made by cheap labor. Mr. J. R. Mohler. Chief of the Bureau of Animal Industry of the United States Department of Agriculture. testified that his department can determine the presence of reworked wool or shoddy in fabrics and garments. and that the percentage of virgin wool can be pretty closely determined. He also testified they can detect the percentage of rayon or other synthetic fibers. Not only that. Mr. Speaker. but is it not rather absurd to say that the manufacturer who works up the raw product into clothing and other material. cannot label that merchandise and tell the buyer what is in it? As a matter of fact. many of our responsible clothing manufacturers require this information now. Why not pass that information on to the consumer? Mr. Speaker. this law is enforceable. To say that it is not. because of technical reasons. is in my judgment without factual foundation. The objectives of this law are right. The provisions for its operation are sound and practical. When any law is fundamentally right in principle. and has for its objective the protection of our people. we should not postpone its enactment because of unfounded arguments that it cannot be enforced.
760268683|Mr. Speaker. I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from Pennsylvania
760268684|"Mr. Speaker. when I first came to Congress in 1930 my aim and object was to introduce what has been termed heretofore a ""truth in fabrics"" act. I want to preface these remarks by stating that I am a woolen manufacturer. I have been in the business all my business life. That is the principal business in which I am interested. I say this because anything I may have to say on this bill does not come about because of the fact that I wish to protect my own particular business in any way. I have been sent here to look after the business of the people of this country and have. Larrabee Sacks Lemke Satterfield Luce Schaefer. Ill. McGranery Schiffier McLean Schwert McMillan. Clara Sheridan McMillan. John L. Short Marcantonlo Simpson Martin. Ill. Smith. Ill. Martin. Mass. Somers. N. Y. Mason Starnes. Ala. Miller Sullivan Mitchell Sweeney Murdock. Utah Terry Myers Thomas. N. J. Nelson Treadway Norton Vinson. Ga. ODay Vreeland Oliver Wadsworth Osmers Wallgren Pfeifer White. Ohio Plumley Winter Reed. N. Y. Wolfenden. Pa. Risk "" Wood Rockefeller"
760268685|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield?
760268686|I yield to the gentleman from New Jersey.
760268687|Is it the intention of the gentleman to make clear that he manufactures virgin wool?
760268688|We have two plants. In one plant we are now using 100percent virgin wool. In the other plant we use wool and wool substitutes. which are allwool products. Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent to Insert in the RECORD at this point the minority views on this bill.
760268689|Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Pennsylvania?
760268690|Mr. Speaker. I believe that the minority views as expressed on this particular bill express my views about as well or probably better than if I tried to express them myself. But let us get down to the real meat of the coconut. What is the object of this legislation? Is it to try to let the American people know the difference between virgin wool and reworked wool? Is that all this bill implies? Is that the principal motive? If it is. then we are shortsighted in what we are trying to do in this legislation. We should amend the bill to give all the material contained in the fabric. As I said before. I tried to work out a bill of this nature. and spent at least 3 months. working day and night. trying to find a way to determine so that the public would know. when a piece of fabric was manufactured. just exactly what was in that piece of cloth. That was my object. My object was to try to let the American people know what was the best kind of fabric for them to buy. so that when they bought an article they would get one that would give them the greatest warmth. because it contained wool. and. because of its longwearing qualities. and its heatcontained properties. a fabric that would have real quality and merit for the consumer. This was the thought I had in mind in trying to write such a bill. But what did I find? I found the complications in drawing such a bill so perplexing. and the bill so difficult of administration. that I had to give it up in despair. It was not practical nor feasible. I went back over the records of bills that had been introduced in years gone by in Congress and reports that had been filed here 20. 30. and 40 years back on similar legislation that was proposed to the Congress. They gave up in despair.
760268691|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield?
760268692|I yield to the gentleman from Texas.
760268693|It is a fact. however. that many of the leading woolen manufacturers of the country. including Botany. Forstmann. and dozens of others. are for this particular bill.
760268694|There are a few worsted manufacturers for a labeling bill. and I do not know whether they are for this particular bill or not. but let me tell you about the woolen manufacturing business. We have the worsted business: Anyone who manufactures worsted has to use the virgin wool to get the roving in order that they may manufacture the worsted fabric. They have to take virgin wool. There is going to be an advantage to the worsted manufacturers over the woolen manufacturers in this particular bill. and if it is going to be for the benefit of the American public. then I would want to see the bill passed. It will be hard to administer and may take an army to police. and it probably will give advantage to foreign manufacturers.
760268695|Mr. Speaker. I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from Michigan .
760268696|Mr. Speaker. first. I wish to say that I am very much in favor of the adoption of this rule. If we succeed in adopting the rule and getting a decent bill ready for passage. I will be glad to support the bill. I hesitate to say I will support this bill because the rule is wide open. and with the division that exists here today. geographically and as between consumers and processors. and with some 10 members of the committee. both Republicans and Democrats. having signed a minority report. and with the principle involved in this bill having been more or less before the Congress for some 15 or 20 years. I have no idea what kind of amendments will be offered to the bill for the specific purpose of destroying It. Therefore I hesitate to say that I will vote for the bill. as it may be amended. when I do not know what amendments will be adopted. There is plenty of evidence to show that there are great forces here today which will oppose the adoption of the rule and the passage of the bill. I can see that. I can see that many roll calls will be called for. perhaps.
760268697|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield?
760268698|I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania.
760268699|I asked for one roll call. but I did so because there were only 30. 40. or 50 Members of the House here. This is important legislation and I want the Members here. I did not do it because I am going to vote against this bill. because the gentleman does not know how I am going to vote.
760268700|I certainly said nothing about how the gentleman is going to vote.
760268701|I have not talked to any Members about how I am going to vote. I am going to do what I think is right when the time comes.
760268702|I certainly said nothing about how the gentleman is going to vote. and I am sure he will use his own good judgment. as he always does:
760268703|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield?
760268704|The gentleman from Oklahoma. I know. is very much opposed to the bill because I have been studying very meticulously the hearings which were made available to us many months ago. and in the hearings you will find some very. very fine educational matter. and you will also find out from the gentleman from Oklahoma just how he stands on the bill. I do not disagree with the gentleman having the right to stand on the bill any way he pleases. so long as I can assert my right to state my position on the bill. However. there is a little document here that is an education on this problem. I have had it on my desk for months. not studying it all the time. but from day to day or week to week I read this book and find something new every time I read it. because this bill has to do with the technique of manufacturing and placing goods on the market for the consumer. and in every case to the advantage of the primary producer or the advantage of the processor or the advantage of the consumer. I suggest that you keep these hearings and study them as consumers or as primary producers of wool or processors of wool or cotton or rayon or other types of goods. because the information contained in these hearings is to me thrilling. It shows further romance in American industry. I hope this bill will remain substantially in its present form. and I hope the rule will be adopted and that in due course we will pass this bill in the form here prbsented and that it will become the law of the land. Mr. Speaker. I yield back the balance of my time.
760268705|Mr. Speaker. I yield 6 minutes to the gentleman from Oklahoma .
760268706|Mr. Speaker. let me say at the outset that I am determined that this bill will not go through without some consideration by the House. There is only one reason that this bill will ever be enacted. if it is enacted. and that is because there is a lack of understanding and a dearth of information about it. Let me give you. in brief. the history of this bill. You have heard already that it has been in Congress some 20 years with a lot of strongarm pressure behind it. I am sure there is not anyone on this floor but what recalls vividly the reprehensible lobbying tactics that have been used on this bill for the last 10 or 12 months. women at every door of the House buttonholing most of the Members of the Congress as they left here. I want to say to you that this bill was carefully considered for a long time by a subcommittee of seven Members. and when it was reported from that subcommittee it was reported by a 1vote majority. The bill then was reported by the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce of 25 members. with 2 members absent. and a vote of 11 against the bill and 12 for it.
760268707|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield?
760268708|I have not time to yield. There is a great deal of misapprehension on the part of those who speak here. The gentleman from Kansas . for whose judgment I have the greatest respect and admiration. has fallen into the misapprehension of calling
760268709|The gentleman does not want to make an Incorrect statement?
760268710|Mr. Speaker. I hope I can proceed without interruption and that these interruptions will not be taken out of my time. The gentleman knows very well that I refer to the fundamental issue. the one issue in this billvirginity in wool.
760268711|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield for a correction?
760268712|"The truth of the matter is that the present law says that if anybody puts a label on goods it must tell the truth. This bill is to force people to put a label on goods that would be misleading to the consumer. They want to force on the retailer a label that he does not want to put on there because it does not tell the full truth about his goods. and because it would not be practicable to tell the whole story on a label. I intend to talk but 1 more minute here. I am going to illustrate to you pointedly the real facts of this bill. This little chart that I hold. divides all woolens into two groups. The prices marked on these woolens are the current prices on the market. This bill divides all woolen goods perpendicularly and says that all wool over here [indicating] is to be labeled virgin wool and all wool over here [indicating] is to be labeled wool waste. CuART No. 1.-Comparative values Current Wool ""wastes"" ""Virgin"" wool price $1.00 Slubbing. Top sort --------------------------------- 0.90 Broken laps. .85 Rovings. Stained wool ----------------------------- .80 Grey wool ---------------------------------.75 Ring wastes. Paint wool ------------------------------- .70 Thread waste. Britch -------------------------------- .60 Noils. Seedy wool ------------------------------- .50 Dead wool ----------------------------- . 50 . 45 Sweepings. Shearlings -------------------------------- .40 Card waste or card fly. Burry wool ]------------------------------ .35 Vat wool ----- -------------------------- . 30 . 25-. 50 New rags. . 20 Burr and brush wastes. Tanners wool ---------------------------- .15 Shank wool ------------------------------ .07 Flocks. .07-. 20 Card strips. Tags ----------------------------------- .05 . 05-. 25 Old rags. Based. June 25. 1940. on 64s/70s. clean value. 0 cents top sort. We know that the word ""virgin"" is wanted by these manufacturers. because it is supposed to connote something that is worth while. Well. no doubt. virginity does connote something of value some places. but if the definition of virginity in wool is to be made by this bill. I want you to have a look at it. Under this bill slubbing is defined as a wool waste. It has never been in a garment. it has never been worn by anybody and it has never got any further than the early stage of wool manufacture. And so on down the line. But notice that tags and shank wool. burry wool. and seedy wool. the poorest grades of dirty. filthy wool that can be gathered together. under this label. will be ""virgin"" wool and will carry a connotation of value to the consumer. This bill is not a bill for truth in fabrics. It is only represented as a bill for truth in woolens. but this chart vividly points out the real facts. that it is not even a halftruth in relation to woolen. and at that a misleading half truth. If you pass this bill you will make the retailer put a label on his goods which will tell a lie to the consumer about the value of the goods. I would not object to a bill of this character at all If it divided woolen goods into classifications that would be just to the consumer. Instead of dividing this line perpendicularly. as it does. if it would divide it horizontally. so that burry wool and seedy wool and tag wool should not be sold to the consumer as something of value. then you would find me up here working for the bill instead of against it. This is the greatest monstrosity that has been presented to this Congress in the time I have been here. This is a highly technical matter. Nobody can fully go into this thing and understand the difference between these things unless they study it thoroughly and deliberately. Yet it is brought in here to be pushed over becduse of indifference and lassitude. Just one other statement. The American Bureau of Standards testified before our committee that once this material was in a garment it would be absolutely impossible to tell whether the wool would be virgin wool or wool waste. Later speakers will testify that somebody from the Department of Agriculture said it could be told. but I leave you the choice. You choose between a man from the Department of Agriculture. who. when I asked him if he would stake his reputation on that statement. broke down. begged to be excused. and refused to answer my question. or whether you will go along with the scientific Bureau of Standards and admit what they say is true. that you cannot tell the difference when it is in a garment. One hundred and thirty million consumers will be cheated. robbed. lied to. and mislead by this if you let it pass."
760268713|Mr. Speaker. I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from Oklahoma .
760268714|Mr. Speaker. we have heard a lot of conversation about sheep growers on this bill. but I believe we ought to give some little thought to the man who will be the goat. That is going to be the American retailer. Retailing has been my business for 10 years. I know nothing of law. but I do know retailing. I want to say that the full brunt of this bill will be placed on the back of the overloaded retailer today. I am surprised today at the gentlemen on the other side of the aisle who I have heard talk for 18 months against Federal regimentation. insisting against the Government reaching its long arm into everybodys business and then get up here and advocate a bill like this. that would reach the long arm of the Federal marshal into every corner grocery store. It would reach into every clothing and department store of this land.
760268715|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield?
760268716|Yes. I yield.
760268717|The gentleman refers to the gentlemen over here. to the Republicans. Does he realize that this is a Democratic bill. introduced by aDemocrat. in charge of a Democrat on the floor. brought up by a Democratic committee? If it is good or bad. why bring any politics into it?
760268718|I am going by the number of men who have spoken in favor of the bill on the other side of the aisle. I say this is regulation of the worst kind.
760268719|Will the gentleman yield?
760268720|I am sorry I do not have time to yield to the gentleman from Texas. whose great ability and personal charm has done so much to advance this bill. Without him it would not even be considered by the committee. Now. I am a retailer. I am used to buying merchandise for years from a certain factory. relying on their integrity and on my experience with that merchandise that it is good merchandise. But now we come along with a Wool Labeling Act. So I go to some man with a holeinthewall establishment and I buy a large quantity of merchandise from this man. It comes to me with the guaranty graciously provided in the bill. Then. lo and behold. they find that this man is a chiseler. What happens? My store is raided and I am subjected to publicity that will drive me out of the retail business. That is the actual fact. That is what you will find when this bill gets into actual working practice back home.
760268721|Will the gentleman yield now?
760268722|"I am sorry. I only have 5 minutes. I want to say that this bill is not supported by the retail federation. comprising 250.000 members. They offered some suggestions in an effort to make the bill less objectionable. but I tell you now that every retailer in this country would like to be relieved of the dangers that this bill will entail. One point I would like to drive home especially. nothing in this bill provides for the hundreds of millions of dollars worth of woolen stocks now on the shelves of the retailers of this country. Do you realize what that will mean when this law is passed? Every bit of this million dollars worth of woolens immediately becomes obsolete. These men will have to sell it at a markdown of at least 50 percent. Why? Because we wanted to help a small group of wool raisers increase the price of their product. Remember this. too. pass this bill and it establishes wool in preference to cotton. for we put on wool the hallmark of character. the word ""sterling."" When we do that what will happen? You now buy a pair of lisle socks that may contain 10 percent wool and 90 percent cotton. but once this wool labeling law is placed into effect you immediately place a preference on wool. The public will be urged to buy woolens of increasing wool content at the prejudice of cotton. Then. too. in the matter of palmbeach suits which today contain perhaps only 10 percent wool. The public buys them because the public knows that a palmbeach suit is a cotton suit. The buyer cares nothing about the wool content. But wait until you pass this bill. then you will find on the label ""This garment contains 10percent wool."" The clever salesman will say. ""Let me show you a light tropicalworsted suit. that contains 100percent wool. Which do you prefer. one that contains only 10percent wool. or one that contains 100percent wool?"" And the public will wind up buying the 100percent tropical worsted. where they had originally wanted cotton. . How any Member from the cottongrowing South can vote to give this preference to wool over the product that means so much to their section of the country is beyond my comprehension. How they can vote for this proposition. I do not know."
760268723|Mr. Speaker. I yield such time as he may desire to the gentleman from Minnesota .
760268724|Mr. Speaker. I ask unanimous consent to extend and revise my remarks and to include therein excerpts from the hearings on this measure.
760268725|Without objection. it is so ordered.
760268726|Mr. Speaker. I hope this legislation is adopted. The consuming public has had no more important issue before the Congress in the last 20 or 25 years than this measure made in order by this rule. I want to see the rule adopted. I take exception to some of the remarks that have been made in reference to the merits of the measure. Let us adopt the rule and discuss the bill this afternoon.
760268727|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield?
760268728|I yield.
760268729|While our eloquent friend from Oklahoma expressed surprise that any southerner would be for this bill is it not a fact that the bill passed the Senate by a vote of 48 to 23. and that his own Senator LEE voted for it?
760268730|I thank the gentleman for his contribution. Mr. Speaker. the passage of this legislation will enable people who buy cloth and other woolen products to know just what they are getting for their money. It requires that the woolen products be labeled. If this legislation is adopted everyone engaged in the manufacture of garments will have to indicate on the finished products just what goes into those various articles of clothing. This bill is in the interests of labor and of the farmer and the clerks and office workers and of everyone who has to pay the price when it comes to the purchase of clothing for the family. I am glad to know that a former Member of Congress. John M. Baer. publicity director of the Union Label Trades Department of the American Federation of Labor. appeared before the committee and urged passage of this legislation. We have known Mr. Baer for many years and his outstanding work in favor of the labor people is well known. In testifying before the committee..he says: The unionlabel trades department of the American Federation of Labor urges the passage of this measure. as it has supported previous bills aimed at protection of the consumer. especially the provisions that would force disclosure of the reclaimed wool or shoddy content of wool products. Our department represents 51 directly affiliated international unions of the American Federation of Labor with. a membership of over 1.000.000. In addition. our departments activities have the loyal support of the 4.600.000 members of the American Federation of Labor. Furthermore. the American Federation of Womens Auxiliaries of Labor. representing 2.000.000 women. is organized under our department (hearings. pp. 295296). Many other prominent people also testified before the committee and pointed out that this bill was intended to protect the consumer and indicated the favorable attitude of their various organizations in support of this measure. The longdelayed action on this measure and other similar measures in past years ought to come to an end. and I believe that the House will adopt this rule and pass this measure by an overwhelming vote.
760268731|Mr. Speaker. I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from California .
760268732|Mr. Speaker. my good friend. the gentlemen from Oklahoma. said that the proponents of this bill come from the Republican side. The minority report contains the signatures of 10 opponents of the bill. 5 of whom are from the Republican side of the House. my name among them. I have no wool manufacturers in my district. I have a few people who might iaise some sheep in the mountains. but I do have a great many consumers of woolen products in my district. something like 400.000. in. whom I am greatly interested in spite of the lobbies to the contrary. and the lobbies are extremely strong on this bill. I do not know where this lobby. originated but I have been told that one manufacturer has spent something like $1.000.000 to lobby the bill through for his own benefit.
760268733|Mr. Speaker. will the gentleman yield?
760268734|"I must decline to yield. as I have only a few minutes. I understand that other people have been paid large sums of money to lobby in favor of this bill. For the protection of my own consumers I have to be against it after an examination of its terms. If this bill were to provide for the labeling of a garment differentiating between the fiber content. as between wool. cotton. rayon. or any loading that might be present in the fibers. I would favor the bill. but as it is. it differentiates between certain kinds of wool. I would be glad to be able to differentiate between those grades myself. but here is what Mr. Emley. Chief of the Division of Organic and Fibrous Materials. of the National Bureau of Standards. has to say about it. Now. listen to this. In response to a question by the gentleman from Texas . Mr. Emley said: When the Bureau of Standards is called upon to forward a report as to whether or not we can determine the content of reclaimed wool. we just cannot give any report. because we cannot tell. Let me point out to you that new wool sells from a few cents a pound up to perhaps 90 cents a pound. Reworked wool. reprocessed wool. sells from a few cents a pound to as high as 90 cents and in one case a dollar. Can you tell the real utility value of the wool when it is marked as new wool or reprocessed wool? Certainly not. You simply cannot do it. Will anybody tell me that new wool valued at 10 cents a pound. when worked into cloth. is equal in value. in abrasive strength. color fastness. wear or anything else. with a reprocessed wool valued at 60 cents a pound? It is ridiculous. It would be a fraud upon the American public to so make them think that just because a product is labeled ""wool"" it has a higher value than if it was labeled ""reprocessed wool"" or ""reused wool."" Mr. Speaker. I do not need to protect the intelligentsia of my district in this matter. They are able to protect themselves from their own knowledge of the fabrics. and their ability to pay high prices and buy from the most responsible merchants. I am interested in protecting the poor people who do not understand these terms. who do not know the value of the wool that goes into manufacture and do not have the money to pay fancy prices for their clothes. I could go on and read testimony that was given to the committee. but it is all contained in the hearings which were printed in March of 1939. They are available for you to study.- Let us not work any fraud on the American public by putting into this bill a differentiation in terms which would indicate to the public that a real differentiation in value existed when that differentiation in value may not be there. As I said before. if this thing would really define wool and leave it up to the people who sold the goods in the stores. to the people who manufacture the goods into clothing or whatever it may be. on their responsibility to tell the public that this is a good product. then I think it would be safe for the public. As it is. it is going to give every cheap shyster gyp artist in the United States a chance to cheat the American people. There is no possibility of anybody telling within 15 percent after final analysis and wear of the product as to whether or not it contains a certain percentage of this or a certain percentage of that kind of wool."
760268735|Mr. Speaker. I yield the remainder of our time to the gentleman from South Dakota .
760268736|"Mr. Speaker. the opposition to this bill is hardpressed and confused. Most of the arguments advanced by one speaker destroy the arguments advanced by another. Indeed. in the report by a minority of the committee. most of the objections raised are entirely answered by other arguments in the same statement. The first argument set forth is that the label proposed will not tell everything that can be told about clothing. It will not tell the tensile strength of the fabric. they say. the length of the fiber. the workmanship that goes into the garment. or a lot of things. If it did they would then argue that it tells too much. They already complain there is too much labeling. Now. this bill does not purport to tack an encyclopedia on every piece of fabric. It does not purport to tell what the man who buys a suit should wear when he eats breakfast. It only purports to say that when the label says. ""This is all wool."" it is all wool. It simply requires that when you say. ""This is all wool and a yard wide"" you mean what you say. The second argument advanced is that the evils of false labeling are being curbed and gradually cured by the Federal Trade Commission. If that were so the Federal Trade Commission itself would not be on record in favor of the passage of the bill and the Federal Trade Commission did testify in favor of the bill. It testified that something like this was needed to put teeth into their recommendations to the trade. The third objection claimed is that it is practically impossible to test the accuracy of a label. I wish these gentlemen might have been with me when recently I had the privilege of going through the testing laboratories in the Army clothing depot over at Philadelphia. The question had come up during our hearings on appropriations for clothing and equipage in the Army appropriation bill as to whether or not the Army actually could tell when it was getting real wool in its blankets and in its uniforms. One member of the committee wondered if the Army did not get cheated. But we were told by General Gregory that the Army could tell. I was in Philadelphia not so long ago and I took occasion to spend a couple of hours in the great. clothing depot up there. I went into the laboratories and I saw the men making their tests. They showed me the results when they took a piece of true wool and when they took a piece of fabric that carried shoddy and other fillers. and they told me the kind of tests they made. Any man here could see the difference in color. feel the difference in weight. and sense the difference in quality after he saw the effect of the tests applied. Vegetable fibers would disappear when certain acids were applied. Shoddy goods would break under tests of tensile strength. This argument that tests are ineffective is ridiculous. If it were true that you could not tell by making these tests. why should you object to the passage of the legislation? If the thing was not going to be effective. if it was not going to accomplish anything. why should you object? The fact is that laboratory tests can check the accuracy of the labels. and check tests are all that is needed to police the trade. A related argument advanced is that the bill would require an army of inspectors and send United States deputy marshals into every store in the country is nonsense. When you have a law against murder. it does not mean that you suspect every man. and investigate to see whether or not he is going to commit a murder. Just because we have some counterfeiting does not mean a law against counterfeiting requires you to subject every dollar bill to a test to determine whether it is a counterfeit bill or not. The value of laws against these things is when you have a violation you have an effective method of dealing with the situation. and that is why we ask for the passage of this legislation. You will not have to check every piece of goods. but when you do check and find misrepresentation you will have the weapon to punish the fraud. The final argument advanced in the statement against this bill is that it would raise the cost of -the goods and would do nothing for the wool grower because the consumer would be unable to buy woolen goods. That argument is destroyed by the argument that appear%. directly above it where it is contended that the bill would be injurious to the cotton producer because instead of buying goods containing some cotton. the consumer would demand all woolen goods. In the same paragraph. it is also contended that the consumer buys according to his means. Well. if he can only buy mixed goods. what harm is done? Indeed. is not good done by giving this innocent purchaser the guarantee that the label on the goods tells the truth? This bill does not make it a crime to use mixed materials. it only requires that the truth be told about them and provides penalties for lying. The practical effect of all these arguments advanced against the bill is that one destroys the other. The bill will hurt some place and it will hurt in the spot it should hurtthe pocketbook of the chiseler who has paraded in sheeps clothing. It will help where it should help by giving protection to the consumer who cannot protect himself. A great deal is being said about national defense these days. Probably you will remember the shoddy scandal during the war. In his Memoirs. volume I. page 316. General Pershing writes: Much of the clothing that we received for our troops was reported to be shoddy. I saw numbers of our men wearing uniforms which were light and thin and which. of course. offered insufficient protection. The lack of clothing had been met in part by purchases from the British. Our troops did not take kindly to the idea of wearing the uniform of another nation. and it was with considerable protest and chagrin that they did so. I hope that will not happen again."
760268737|Mr. Speaker. I yield 6 minutes to the gentleman from Texas .
760268738|Mr. Speaker. I hope not to cover any ground that has already been gone over. This proposed legislation is far more important than its effect upon the articles with which it is dealing. In my examination of the development of governmental policies. I have become thoroughly convinced that many of the thingsmany of the dangerous. extreme thingswhich government has to do are due to the fact that government has not done the relatively few things which government ought to do when it ought to do them. and which only a government can do. You examine that. From time immemorial. until the last 75 or 100 years. it has been recognized as the business of government to establish and supervise the market place. to create the possibilities of honest contact commercially. to give the little man the same opportunity of trade contact with the market which the big man has. When that custom was established the community was the industrial organization and the individual was the industrial unit. Local production accommodated itself to local demand. and local demand in the main had to be satisfied with local production. Now the field of production and the field of consumption have moved so far apart under the influence of cheap and rapid transportation that it is impossible for the small manufacturer to reach the general market. He does not have the money to advertise in the general market. He cannot support a selling organization that can span the distance between seller and buyer. Buyers in the general market cannot know of his honesty or the quality of his goods. if. in fact. of good quality. or the bad quality of his competitors goods. if of bad quality. What we need if we are going to preserve a democracy of opportunity in America is to have an intermediary agency of inspection and supervision that will give to those who have never seen the commodity even confidence in buying that which they have not seen or cannot judge of if they have seen it. In order to do that. there must be an intermediary agency of supervision. Whether or not this is a perfect bill. it is a bill in the right direction. It is an important thing. if we are going to preserve a democracy of opportunity. that government apply to modern conditions the philosophy of the open market place in the day when the community was the industrial organization. the individual the commercial unit. and people had an opportunity to know the character of the producer and the quality of his product. This bill proposes to go as far as legislative ingenuity is now able to go in seeing to it that the manufacturer. who alone can know. may advise the purchasing public of what goes into his materials that he sells. What is wrong about that? One of my distinguished friends wants to protect the poor people by denying them information which poor people cannot possibly have.
