speech_id|speech
1110146732|pro ternpore. Under the previous order. the leadership time is reserved.
1110146733|Under the previous order. the Senate will resume consideration of the motion to proceed to H.R. 5297. which the clerk will report by title. The bill clerk read as follows: Motion to proceed to the consideration of H.R. 5297. a bill to create the Small Business Lending Fund Program to direct the Secretary of the Treasury to make capital investments in eligible institutions in order to increase the availability of credit for small businesses. to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide tax incentives for small business job creation. and for other purposes.
1110146734|Mr. President. I suggest the absence of a quorum.
1110146735|The clerk will call the roll. The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
1110146736|Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded.
1110146737|Without objection. it is so ordered.
1110146738|Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to executive session to consider Executive Calendar No. 962. the nomination of John Pistole to be Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security. that the nomination be confirmed. the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. that any statements relating to the nomination be printed in the RECORD as if read. that the President be immediately notified of the Senates action and the Senate resume legislative session.
1110146739|Without objection. it is so ordered. The nomination considered and confirmed is as follows:
1110146740|The Senate will now return to legislative session.
1110146741|Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to a period for the transaction of morning business. with Senators allowed to speak for up to 10 minutes each.
1110146742|Without objection. it is so ordered.
1110146743|Mr. President. I rise on behalf of myself and Senator BOXER to introduce legislation to further the restoration of the San Francisco Bay. There are many areas in the country in with restoration is done. and I am pleased to introduce an authorization for restoration work in the San Francisco Bay with Senator BOXER. Chairwoman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. and to work with our colleague Representative SPEIER in the U.S. House of Representatives. As an appropriator. and Chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior. Environment. and Related Agencies. I have secured $17 million in Federal funding for ecosystem restoration and water quality work in the San Francisco Bay in the last 3 years. I have also secured $15 million since 2006 for the Fish and Wildlife Service to restore salt ponds to tidal wetlands in the Bay. It is necessary to ensure that these funds continue to be appropriated and are spent on the most important projects for the ecosystem and public benefit. To that end. this legislation will prioritize funding for projects that will protect and restore vital estuarine habitat for migratory waterfowl. shorebirds. and wildlife. improve and restore water ruality and rearing habitat for fish. and ensure public benefits. Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD.
1110146744|Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to Calendar No. 439. S. 3104.
1110146745|pro ternpore. Without objection. it is so ordered. The clerk will report the bill by title.
1110146746|Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that the committeereported amendment be agreed to. the bill. as amended. be read the third time and passed. the motion to reconsider be laid upon the table. and that any statements relating to this bill be printed in the RECORD.
1110146747|pro ternpore. Without objection. it is so ordered. The committee amendment in the nature of a substitute was agreed to. The bill was ordered to be engrossed for a third reading. was read the third time. and passed.
1110146748|Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent to proceed to the consideration of S. Res. 566.
1110146749|The clerk will report the resolution by title.
1110146750|Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that the resolution be agreed to. the preamble be agreed to. the motions to reconsider be laid upon the table. with no intervening action or debate. and that any statements relating to the resolution be printed in the RECORD.
1110146751|Without objection. it is so ordered. The resolution (S. Res. 566) was agreed to. The preamble was agreed to. The resolution. with its preamble. reads as follows: S. REs. 566 Whereas on June 10. 2010. violence erupted between ethnic Kyrgyz and Uzbek communities in the southern city of Osh. Kyrgyzstan. and later spread to the city of Jalalabad. leaving at least several hundred dead and thousands injured. Whereas the outbreak of violence forced as many as 400.000 people to flee their homes. including an estimated 100.000 women and children who face desperate conditions along the KyrgyzstanUzbekistan border. Whereas the United Nations Childrens Fund (UNICEF) and other United Nations agencies estimate that the violence could directly or indirectly affect more than 1.000.000 people. Whereas the displacement of ethnic Uzbeks and continuing instability in the southern part of Kyrgyzstan could destabilize the Provisional Government of Kyrgyzstan and undermine the legitimacy of the referendum on constitutional reform scheduled for June 27. Whereas the Provisional Government of Kyrgyzstan. which came to power in April 2010 following largescale opposition protests against the regime of former president Kurmanbek Bakiyev. has yet to fully extend its authority in the south and build the capacity necessary to address underlying political. social. and economic tensions. Whereas Kyrgyz and Uzbeks in Osh have retreated into largely selfsegregated neighborhoods. creating the potential for a permanent division into ethnic enclaves that could impede the delivery of humanitarian assistance and jeopardize the longterm stability of the country. Whereas rioting and violence in southern Kyrgyzstan could spread to other areas in the Ferghana Valley. which spans the countries of Kyrgyzstan. Uzbekistan. and Tajikistan. and further exacerbate interethnic competition for resources in the region. Whereas protracted instability in Kyrgyzstan and the wider region could provide a safe haven for extremists and criminal networks and obstruct efforts to combat the drug trade. Whereas stability in Kyrgyzstan and the broader Central Asia region. which borders Afghanistan. Iran. China. and Russia. is important to the national security interests of the United States. Whereas Central Asia plays a vital role in the United States strategy for Afghanistan. including the transit center at Manas International Airport in Kyrgyzstan that forms an integral part of the northern supply route for North Atlantic Treaty Organization and United Statesled coalition operations in Afghanistan. Whereas promoting stability. respect for human rights. and economic and political reform in Central Asia are important priorities for the United States. Whereas economic growth and democratic political development in Central Asia would provide a foundation for improved cooperation with the United States in confronting an array of global challenges. from nonproliferation and counternarcotics to energy security and climate change. and Whereas the potential for escalating violence in Kyrgyzstan concerns not only the United States and the people of Kyrgyzstan. but also the countries in the region and the international community: Now. therefore. be it Resolved. That it is the sense of the Senate(1) to call upon all parties in Kyrgyzstan to refrain from violence and attend to the civilians who have been displaced or injured as a result of the violence. paying particular attention to the ethnic Uzbek population along the KyrgyzstanUzbekistan border. (2) that the Provisional Government of Kyrgyzstan should(A) take immediate steps to restore order. the rule of law. and the democratic process. (B) address the underlying political. social. and economic tensions that divide Kyrgyz society for all citizens of Kyrgyzstan. regardless of ethnic background. and (C) bring to justice those responsible for the recent violence. (3) to support calls for a full and fair investigation into the causes of the violence in southern Kyrgyzstan. (4) to welcome the commitment of more than $32.000.000 of the United States Government to Kyrgyzstan for programs supporting humanitarian relief. reconstruction. and community stabilization. (5) to commend the Government of Uzbekistan for cooperating with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. the International Committee of the Red Cross. UNICEF. and other international nongovernmental organizations in meeting the urgent needs of Uzbek refugees. (6) that the Government of Uzbekistan should maintain an open border in order to ensure that the displaced and vulnerable populations seeking refuge in Uzbekistan may avail themselves of emergency humanitarian assistance and protection services. (7) to call upon the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to help restore calm and order through(A) strengthening the democratic institutions of Kyrgyzstan. (B) encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. (C) establishing a framework for dialogue among the ethnic communities. and (D) promoting confidence building measures between the Provisional Government of Kyrgyzstan and ethnic communities. and (8) to commend the efforts of relief organizations and all persons responding to the immediate humanitarian needs of those displaced by the recent outbreak of violence in Kyrgyzstan.
1110146752|Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that the RECORD remain open until 12 noon for the purpose of the introduction of legislation. the insertion of statements. and any cosponsors. notwithstanding an adjournment of the Senate.
1110146753|pro ternpore. Without objection. it is so ordered.
1110146754|Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate completes its business today. it adjourn until 2 p.m. on Monday. June 28. that following the prayer and pledge. the Journal of proceedings be approved to date. the morning hour be deemed expired. the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day. and that following any leader remarks. the Senate proceed to a period of morning business until 3 p.m.. with Senators permitted to speak for up to 10 minutes each. that following morning business. the Senate resume consideration of the motion to proceed to H.R. 5297.
1110146755|Without objection. it is so ordered.
1110146756|Mr. Presiderit. under a previous order. at 5 p.m. on Monday. the Senate will proceed to executive session to debate the nomination of Gary Feinerman to be United States [56. Pt. 8 11785 District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois. with the time until 5:30 p.m. equally divided and controlled between Senators LEAHY and SESSIONS or their designees. At 5:30 p.m.. there will be two rolleall votes. The first vote will be on the motion to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to H.R. 5297. the second vote will be on confirmation of the Feinerman nomination.
1110146757|Mr. President. if there is no further business to come before the Senate. I ask unanimous consent that it stand adjourned under the previous order.
1110146758|"Madam Speaker. since the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the death of 11 workers on April 20. 2010. the American people have watched helplessly as millions of barrels of oil have spilled into the Gulf of Mexico. It has become obvious that the technologies to drill ever deeper for oil and gas have developed rapidly. but the technologies needed to prevent or stop catastrophic spills have not. That is why I am introducing the Stop Oil Spills Act. or the SOS Act. If we are going to drill ultradeep. we must be able to make that drilling ultrasafe and to stop any spill ultrafast. The SOS Act repeals Sections 999A through 999H of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and establishes in its place the ""Innovative Offshore Drilling Safety Technology Program."" The bill takes $50 million per year in oil and gas royalty payments. which currently are directed to a 2005 Energy Policy Act program that subsidizes industry development of deepwater drilling technology. and redirects those funds to a Department of Energy grant program to develop nextgeneration technologies to prevent or stop offshore drilling spills. This new program will help ensure that we avoid future offshore well blowouts like the one that led to the current disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. and that in the event of a blowout. that we have the right tools on hand to stop the spill quickly and effectively. The latest estimates are that between 35.000 and 60.000 barrels of oil are spewing into our territorial waters every day. While BP gave assurance that it could respond to a spill of more than four times this amount. the reality is quite different. In attempt after failed attempt to stop the flow of oil into the Gulf. from ""top kill"" to ""top hat"" to ""junk shot"". BP has demonstrated that it is not prepared to deal with the consequences of a deepwater well blowout with such great pressures and depths. With other companies spill response plans virtually mirroring those of BPs. it appears that the industry as a whole is equally unprepared. Over the last three years. the five largest independent oil producers amassed nearly $289 billion dollars in profits. invested a total of $39 billion to explore for new oil and gas deposits. and invested more than $10 billion in research and development. And yet over that time. ExxonMobil. ConocoPhillips. and BP invested an average of just $20 million per year in research and development on safety. accident prevention. and spill response technologies and capabilities. BP CEO Tony Haywards admission that his company lacks the tools to respond to the current spill is the direct result of a pattern of investment that prioritizes ultradeep drilling over ultrasafe drilling. The SOS Act will not increase costs to taxpayers. The bill is paid for by redirecting royalty payments that are now being used to subsidize industry development of deepwater drilling technologies. something that industry has the resources and incentives to perform on its own. The SOS Act will ensure that the technologies we will need to respond to the next oil spill are being developed and tested with the Federal governments support and guidance. The bill requires the Secretary of Energy. in consultation with the Secretary of Interior. to establish a program within six months to provide awards to support the development. demonstration. and commercialization of innovative technologies to prevent. stop. or capture largescale accidental discharges of oil or other hydrocarbons from offshore oil and gas drilling operations. including deepwater and ultradeepwater operations. The awards will focus on new technologies or innovative improvements to existing technologies. These include blowout preventers. secondary control systems. remotely operated vehicles or technologies to stop or capture hydrocarbons from offshore wells. The bill directs the Secretary to select projects on a competitive basis. based primarily on the potential for commercialization of the relevant technology and the potential to enhance industrys capacity to prevent. stop or contain a largescale spill from offshore drilling operations. The program will be carried out in accordance with an annual plan prepared by the Secretary that takes into consideration recommendations from a Technical Advisory Committee established by the bill. as well as recommendations from the independent commission established by the President to investigate the Deepwater Horizon spill and the existing Interagency Coordinating Committee on Oil Pollution Research. The annual plan shall be transmitted annually to Congress and made available on the Internet. Finally. the bill establishes a Stop Oil Spills (SOS) Fund in the U.S. Treasury and moves funds from the existing industry research and development subsidy program from the Energy Policy Act of 2005 into this new Fund. For each of fiscal years 2011 through 2017. from any Federal royalties. rents. and bonuses derived from Federal onshore and offshore oil and gas leases issued under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. $50.000.000 shall be deposited into the Fund. Monies in the Oil SOS Fund shall be available to the Secretary for obligation without fiscal year limitation and up to five percent of the monies may cover the costs of administering the program. We will continue to be susceptible to the risk of deepwater blowouts and hydrocarbon spills as long as we are dependant on petroleum to meet our energy needs. While we work to reduce and eliminate this dangerous dependence. we must do everything in our power to decrease the likelihood of a catastrophic spill and increase our capacity to stop it and respond to it. The SOS Act will put us on the path of improving the safety of our drilling operations and ensuring that the appropriate tools are in the toolbox to respond if another spill emergency ever occurs."
