speech_id|speech
860223196|Mr. Speaker. under leave to extend my remarks in the RECORD. I wish to bring to the attention of my colleagues an editorial which appeared in the St. Louis GlobeDemocrat of May 4. 1960. on the subject of medical aid for the elderly. as follows:
860223197|Mr. Speaker. one of the best qualified authorities on the subject of river development and electric power. is Mr. Virgil Hanlon. manager of the East River Electric P6wer Cooperative. Madison. S. Dak. Mr. Hanlon has written an interesting article on the proposed slack water navigation development on the Missouri River which I include at this point in the RECORD:
860223198|Mr. Speaker. in these days of fastmoving events and everincreasing national and international demands of every description. it is most refreshing. encouraging and inspiring to know that we have at the helm of one of Americas most important institutions for the development of basic scientific research. the National Science Foundation. a skipper of the caliber and personality of Dr. Alan T. Waterman. In this connection. the news article written by William Hines. science director for the Washington Star. has been of special interest to me. If our people. Mr. Speaker. had more bureaucrats of the stature of Dr. Waterman leading our Nation in these days of critical crises. I am certain that we would be more confident of our future. The article is as follows: FOUNDATION REDEDicATEs ITSELF TO BASIC
860223199|"Mr. Speaker. it was my great privilege last week to take part in the 17th American Assembly which was held at Arden House. Harriman. N.Y.. to discuss the subject of ""The Federal Government and Higher Education."" A cross section of educators. businessmen. labor leaders and public officials listened to an excellent address on the subject of the conference delivered by the distinguished senior Senator from Pennsylvania. the Honorable JOSEPH S. CLARK. Senator CLARKS keen analytical mind and his appreciation of the profound importance to American society of higher education makes his address one of the most valuable discussions of this problem I have ever heard. As Senator CLARK said at Arden House. ""The purpose of higher education is the staffing of freedom."" I commend to Members of Congress the reading of Senator CLARKS remarks:"
