speech_id|speech
1010202208|Mr. Speaker. despite a general belief that IRS employees are out to get the taxpayer. the Internal Revenue Service has many exemplary employees in its ranks. One such employee is Ira Loeb. Director of the Springfield District of the IRS. who recently announced his retirement. Ira is the longest serving director In the history of the Springfield office. and is the recipient of numerous awards such as the prestigious Regional Commissioners Award and several Assistant Commissioner Awards. His record as a public servent is laudable. and his presence at the helm of the Springfield District IRS office will be missed. At the time. I would like to insert In the RECORD an article citing Ira Loebs distinguished career which appeared recently In the State Journal Register.
1010202209|Mr. Speaker. on September 10. 1990. Mr. Jim Jirsa will celebrate his 100th birthday. For this occasion. the community of Baldwin Park will organize a recognition day for him. When Jim Jirsa and his wife May moved to Baldwin Park in 1945. they encountered turkey ranches. chicken farms. and orange groves. Signs warned of penalties for orange picking and it only cost a nickel to go downtown on the old. electric. red cars. Mr. Jirsa. along with his wife of 73 years. has watched the citys population grow from 16.000 to more than 60.000. Mr. Jirsa has done more than watch the city change. he has been a dynamic force behind the changes. He set the wheels In motion for the senior citizens programs by Incorporating the Committee on Aging in 1977. A 1908 graduate of Chicago Business College. he has used his background in bookkeeping and accounting to help various community organizations. He served as treasurer for the Committee on Aging. the Senior Citizen Nutrition program and the American Legion In which he is a life member. In addition Mr. Jirsa also served as a visitor on the Advisory Commission and as recreation and parks commissioner for Baldwin Park. In 1981 he was Senior Citizen of the Year and was honored on the 16th annual Older Americans Recognition Day by the L.A. County Board of Supervisors. He has also worked closely with the Baldwin Park Adult School. Mr. Jirsa is the last remaining WWI veteran in Barracks No. 1643. the Baldwin Park post for veterans of WWI. In 1918. he was 28 years old and a newlywed of 14 months when he reported to Camp Grant in Rockford. IL. As a member of the 161st Depot Brigade. he worked as an orderly delivering transfers and telegrams for a monthly salary of about $8 after deductions. Mr. Jirsa attributes his long life to days filled with responsibility both at home and within the community. Also. he says. he drinks milk. Mr. Speaker. at this time I ask that my colleagues please join me in saluting Mr. Jim Jirsa for his outstanding community efforts in Baldwin Park. As a visible voice in the community. he has been part of the leadership. an active force. for Baldwin Park.
1010202210|Mr. Speaker. it is with distinct pleasure that I rise today to pay tribute to a family who has spent 35 years In business faithfully and generously serving the people of my Eighth Congressional District of New Jersey. The Jachera family have been in the restaurant business since 1955 and for the last 25 years have been the proud proprietors of the Wayne Manor which will celebrate its silver anniversary on Friday. September 7. To commemorate this event the Wayne Manor will host a charity ball and in typically unselfish behavior all proceeds will be donated by Ted Jachera. owner of the Manor. to two very worthy causesSt. Josephs Home for the Elderly of the Little Sisters of the Poor In Totowa. NJ and the Huntingtons disease unit of the Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center In New York City. Honorary chairman for the ball is His Eminence John Cardinal OConnor. archbishop of New York. This silver anniversary notes not only 25 years of successful business. but 25 years of active participation In. and devotion to. a community and Individuals who have had the good fortune to have come In contact with Ted Jachera and his family. The two charities which are being benefited by this dinner dance perform a great deal of important work In the area. ensuring that the unfortunate victims of disease and poverty have care and shelter. The Little Sisters of the Poor dedicate their lives to taking care of the aged poor at St. Josephs Home for the Elderly. These sisters provide the personal care and spiritual comfort which gives the aged the dignity and kindness which they deserve and so often are denied during the later stages along lifes journey. Among the sisters vows Is that of hospitalitywelcome of the aged regardless of race. religion. color. or natural origin. Devotion to the care and consolation of your fellow man has no higher calling and is truly Gods work. Huntingtons disease Is a hereditary brain disorder that slowly erodes the victims mental capacity and physical control. In 1988. the Archdiocese of New York. under the leadership of John Cardinal OConnor. established a unit for the care of Huntingtons disease patients at the Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center. Care at the Cooke Center is geared to the unique needs of the Hunting. tons patient. It Is believed that this unit will serve as a model for others across the Nation and around the world. The charity ball will help to make the lives of the aged poor and Huntingtons disease patients a bit more comfortable and hopeful. What better way to share the joy and success of 25 years In business than by helping those less fortunate. The Jachera family began its long career In the restaurant business in 1955. Louis Jachera. laid off from work at the Tide Water Oil Co.. and knowing that he must provide a living for his family. invested In a tavern called the HIHo Club in Wayne. NJ. and moved his family into the apartment above the club. For 10 years. Louis and Anlela Jachera operated the club with the help of their sons Ted and Stan. In 1964 Ted and Stan decided to set up their own business in association with Jerry Cardillo who lent his knowledge of the catering business and experience with Sam Cuccinello at the Rustic Lodge and was of tremendous assistance to the Jachera brothers. After a full year of work to complete the original section of the building. the Wayne Manor opened in July 1965. The building consisted of two rooms and an office. The Empire Room on the upper level opened first and was split into two separate roomsthe Princess and Duchess. By the end of the year the downstairs room opened and was called the Manor Room. divided into the Apollo and Venus Rooms. The official grand opening occurred on August 9. 1965. and was one of the happiest days of Louis Jacheras life. He was able to witness his sons opening their own business. The opening would nevjr have been possible without his proud supprt and generous financial backing. The HIHo Club was sold in October 1965 and Louit. only shortly there after died of cancer on November 13. 1965. The Manor expanded in 1969 adding an extension to the building and currently. after a great deal of hard work and renovations. can accommodate up to 2.000 people. There are eight banquet rooms. five kitchens. and an indoor and outdoor chapel. In 1977. Ted and Stan Jachera were joined by their brother John who left IBM and began working with them full time at the Wayne Manor and is now in partnership with Ted. Teds children Kathleen. Robert. and Thomas all work full time in the establishment and plan to continue the family business. Johns children Linda and Steven are parttime employees as well. Stanley Jachera and Jerry Cardillo have since passed away. They are both greatly missed and will always be remembered. In addition to the coming Silver Anniversary Charity Ball. another silver anniversary was recently held at the Wayne Manor. The Martens. who on August 4. 1965. were the first couple to use the Manor for their wedding reception. renewed their vows on their 25th wedding anniversary. Again. in recognition of and gratitude to the people who have partronized his business over the years. Ted Jachera offered the use of the indoor chapel with his compliments. Mr. Speaker. it is gestures such as this and the charity ball which often go unnoticed in the community. but they demonstrate the sincerest commitment and devotion to people which responsible businessmen across the Nation should emulate and which this particular community can be proud of. I know that you join with me and the rest of my colleagues In the House in extending my heartiest congratulations to the Jachera family on their achievements and generosity and for their continued success and prosperity.
1010202211|Mr. Speaker. I rise today to introduce a bill which will enhance the access to the Federal courts for some 70.000 residents of my congressional district. Specifically. the bill will move the counties of Culpeper. Louisa. and Orange from the eastern judicial district of Virginia to the western district of Virginia. Currently. litigants and lawyers are required to travel some distance to Alexandria or Richmond to access the Federal court. In light of the distance required to attend court. and the traffic and parking problems associated with such travel. there exists a reluctance to use the Federal court. Since these counties. once moved. would be assigned to the Charlottesville division of the western district. travel to a Federal court will be more convenient thereby enhancing utilization of the court. The bill has the enthusiastic support of the bar associations of the three affected counties as well as the chief judge of the western district and the resident judge in Charlottesville. I look forward to working with the Judiciary Committee to move this bill to enactment and provide the relief necessary for the people of Culpeper. Louisa. and Orange.
1010202212|"Mr. Speaker. I rise today to share with my colleagues a fine and stirring poem written by my constituent. Mr. Howard Sessoms of Homeland. FL. I met Mr. Sessoms while I was traveling in my district this summer. We visited. and he gave me a copy of a poem he had written about that great symbol of freedom. the AmerIcan flag. As I reflect on the debates we had eadler this year about the socalled right to desecrate our flag. I wish that all of my friends here in the Congress could see the wisdom contained in this simple poem by a true patriot. Mr. Speaker. with the Houses permission. I wish to reprint ""Should We Bum The Flag."""
1010202213|Mr. Speaker. President Bush is expected to notify Congress this month that he plans to negotiate a free trade agreement [FTA] with Mexico. In recent hearings on this subject held by the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee. I expressed certain misgivings I had about a United StatesMexico FTA. I argued that. while an FTA arrangement with Mexico might be good for the overall economIc health of both nations. Mexicos low wage base might have a depressing effect on wages in the United States. especially in the manufacturing sector. Prof. Robert Dunn. a professor at George Washington University. makes a similar case In a Washington Post article. which Is printed below. It should be required reading for everyone involved in these bilateral trade negotiations. [From the Washington Post. Aug. 1. 1990] LoWPAID WORKERS WOULD Losz EvxN MORE
1010202214|Mr. Speaker. I invite my colleagues in the Congress to join me in paying tribute to Judge William F. Lanam. a distinguished justice in the Superior Court of San Mateo County. After 20 years of exemplary judicial service and a notable career of service to the citizens of San Mateo County. Judge Lanam will retire this month. In the Superior Court. where he has served since January 1973. Judge Lanam was presiding judge. assistant presiding judge. and held other assignments on domestic. juvenile. meotal. criminal. and civil calendars. He dealt with a number of complex litigation cases. including the publicized Tinsley desegregation case and the massive Shell oil case involving some 250 Insurance companies. Judge Lanams service to our community did not begin with his appointment to the Superior Court in 1973. For 2 years prior to that time. he was a municipal court judge In the central district of San Mateo County. During his tenure. he initiated procedures which substantially reduced delays in bringing cases to trial. which has contributed significantly to the current status of San Mateo County courts as having the most uptodate calendars in the State of California. While he was executive director of the San Mateo County Bar Association. he developed the private defender program to provide pdvate counsel for accused Indigent individuals on trial. Since the Inception of the program In 1969. it has been under contract with the San Mateo Board of Supervisors. and it has received awards of merit from the American Bar Association. Judge Lanam also served as a deputy district attorney in San Mateo County from 1960 to 1962 and again In 1967. From 1962 to 1967 he was In private practice. and during that time he was named as the first juvenile court referee for San Mateo County by a unanimous vote of the Superior Court judges. William F. Lanam was born In Hawaii on July 28. 1929. but spent his formative years in San Francisco. He graduated from the City College of San Francisco. San Francisco State College. and the University of San Francisco School of Law. He met his wife while both were students at Commerce High School of San Francisco. They have been married for 40 years and have lived In Burlingame for the past 30 years. They are the parents of 6 children and have 11 grandchildrenall living In the San Francisco Bay Area. A member and past chairman of the judicial ethics and judicial elections committees for the California Judges Association. Judge Lanam Is the author of Judicial Elections Handbook. He formed and coordinated the San Mateo County Committee for Fair Judicial Elections and established the format which has been adopted by other counties throughout the State. He also organized and coordinated the joint committee on mental health and the law. which is comprised of members of the legal and mental health professions. An Indication of his concern for others was his selection for the People Who Care Award. Mr. Speaker. Judge William F. Lanam has been a steadfast and devoted public servant. The citizens of San Mateo County owe him a debt of gratitude for his publicspirited contribution to the courts and government of our area. I urge my colleagues to join me In honoring him now as he retires from the bench. We wish him well now as he pursues other activities.
