speech_id|speech
510006216|I now yield for ten minutes to the gentleman from Missouri .
510006217|Mr. Speaker. it is necessary for me to state in the outset that my position on this report from the Committee on Rules will be governed entirely by a solemn and wellunderstood compact entered into between honorable gentlemen representing the four cities competing for this site. The statement I make in regard to this compact I get from gentlemen who were present when it was made. I do not state any of the facts from my personal knowledge. Before the Committee on Foreign Affairs was announced. before a single bill had been introduced. before it was known to any members of the House outside of the Speaker who were to compose the Committee on Foreign Afdhirs. Representatives on this floor. meeting business men from New York. from Washington. from Chicago. and from St. Louis. agreed among themselves to recommend to the Representatives from the four cities particularly interested and to the Representatives a plan by which each of these cities could have a fair and equal and honorable representation on that committee. This compact was entered into. and gentlemen on this floor were committed to it. and I for one shall stand here and insist it shall be carried out in good faith today. This is no reflection on the Committee on Foreign Affairs. for at the time this compact was entered into none of us knew who would compose that committee. as I have already stated. And I am surprised. sir. that the distinguished gentleman from Illinois. chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. should advocate the minority report submitted by the gentleman. his colleague. from Illinois. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs ought to be the last member in this House. in my judgment. to advocate that report. simply becauseit is well known that he has stated time and again that. as far as he is concerned. his choice in this matter is fixed. No amount of argument that could be used before that committee would change the views of the distinguished chairman of the committee. He is already committed to a site. and every member of this House knows that if that committee reports a bill to the House of Representatives in regard to the worlds fair the distinguished gentleman at the head of that committee will have charge of that bill on the floor of the House. I ask gentlemen on the floor of the House if. with all that has been done before. this is a fair proposition? I know the long experience the gentleman has had upon the floor. and also his skill as a parliamentarian. and not only that. but his skill in diplomacy. and through both of these reports I think I can see plainly the marks of the diplomatand the parliamentarian. Now. Mr. Speaker. all that St. Louis asks. all that the delegates from that city and the Representatives from the State of Missouri ask. in regard to the worlds fair. is that a special committee shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House. under the majority resolution reported by the gentleman from Ohio. and that that committee shall contain an equal number of friends of the four principal cities competing for this site. the Speaker to select the chairman. Mr. Speaker. whatever else St. Louis and Missouri may do on this floor to secure for St. Louis the worlds fair. you can rest assured that no Representative of that State and no friend of St. Louis will come upon the floor and ask any undue advantage in her behalf. She needs none. Her great commercial advantages. her geographical location. her population. her people. her friends. are all such that she need ask no unfair advantage of any or all of the cities of the United States in this competition for the location of the worlds fair. If we can not secure it by appealing to the judgment of the members on this floor. we do not want it. If we have to secure it by violating a compact entered into between honorable gentlemen representing these cities. St. Louis does not want it. We simply ask that that agreement shall be carried out in good faith and the majority report. while it is not all that we expected. may be adopted by the House. Now. I know that there are individual members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs who have not committed themselves to any particular location. They are honorable gentlemen. There are many of them that the friends of St. Louis would as soon see on that committee on the worlds fair as any gentlemen on the floor of this House. and it is no reflection upon the committee or any individual member of it that we come before you and simply say that our hands are bound by an honorable compact and that we ask that that compact be carried out in good faith. We appeal to the House in behalf of the rights of all of these cities that made this compact to ratify it by the adoption of the majority report. I reserve. Mr. Speaker. whatever time I may not have consumed of the ten minutes yielded to me.
510006218|The gentleman has one minute of his time left.
510006219|I now yield ten minutes to the gentleman from Missouri .
510006220|Mr. Speaker. I am in favor of the majority report because I believe the creation of a select committee is in the interest of good legislation. Such committee would be able to give its entire. exclusive. undivided attention to this subject. which now. in the minds of many people in this country. overshadows all other public questions. Such a committee properly constituted. as it undoubtedly would be. would be able to consider the subject Impartially and fairly. and I do not intend to detract from the worth of the Committee on Foreign Affairs when I make this statement. Whether we are to have any legislation upon this subject at all. whether we are to have a worlds fair or not. it is imperative that the conclusion when reached shall be beyond the suspicion of unfairness and partiality. Again I repeat that I make no aspersions upon the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The rule. however. Mr. Speaker. creating that committee and defining its jurisdiction does not cover this subject.
510006221|"But the rules have been adopted so far as conferring jurisdiction upon this committee is concerned. That rule provides that ""all proposed legislation relating to the relations of the United States and foreign pations ""-that is the language of the rule-"" shall go to the Committee on Foreign Affairs."" All proposed legislation relating to the relations of the United States with foreign nations. Now. gentlemen all will agree that this exposition is to be national in character and international simply as an incident. It is to be the countrys tribute to the immortal courage of the gentleman who discovered this continent. under whose blessings we now live. I do not think it becoming at this time to allude to the claims of the various cities competing for the location of this great exposition. I could press upon your attention convincing reasons why the great. magnificent. and attractive city of the great Mississippi Valley. the city of my home. should be the place selected. but I shall refrain from urging them at this time. Now. Mr. Speakqr: the legislation respecting the Centennial Expo- sition at Philadelphia did not comprehend one act or one resolution only. It covered a period of five years of legislation. and it is idle to say that one single act. one single bill. reported from the Committee on Foreign Affairs will settle this matter. We will have legislation all along the line. we will have legislation covering the entire period. Legislation respecting the Centennial Exposition at Philadelphia comprehended eleven distinct acts. More than one hundred bills for legislative considerhtion were introduced into this House respecting that exposition. The Committee on Foreign Affairs will have as much to do. perhaps. as it may be able to handle. but this committee. with this subject before it and to which all proposed legislation on this subject shall be referred. will be able to handle the matter with undivided attention. In addition. Mr. Speaker. to the reason I have briefly urged in favor of the majority report. I wish to urge this reason as against the report of the gentleman from Illinois . I am inexperienced in legislation. I was therefore highly complimented when. on the 6th day of December. the gentleman from Illinois waited upon me at my hotel. accompanied by the gentleman from New York . and asked my assent to the introduction of a resolution calling for the appointment of a select committee of thirteen. The gehtleman from New York had a resolution of that character. the gentleman from Illinois had a resolution of a similar ehracter. I had a resolution of like character. With the pride of opinion that is just and honorable in a gentleman of the everlasting exorience of the astute gentleman from Illinois.the gentleman from New York and myself yielded to the resolution that he had drawn for the formation of this committee. XXI41 The gentleman from Illinois was told to report to the Speaker of the House that we. the representatives of the cities. and the District of Columbia. represented by the commissioners of the District. would assent to the selection of a committee of thirteen on the condition that the Speaker appoint the chairman of that committee and on condition that he did not hail from any State that had a city which was competing for the location. It was upon that condition that we assented to the introjiction of the resolution. The gentleman came to me. not out of compliment to me. but after having appeared before the Speaker and having asked permission to introduce a resolution of that character. The Speaker told the gentleman that he was under promise to me that before a resolution of that kind was introduced I should le consulted. because immediately after the election of the officers of this House I waited upon the Speaker and asked him whether he would recognize me the next day for the introduction of this resolution. The Speaker said. ""I prefer that you do not ask for recognition for that purpose at this time."" I told the Speaker that any preference of his was. of course. a command. He then said. ""Before any action is taken I will see that you are informed upon the subject."" The purpose I had in view was that there should be speedy legislation on this subject. There is very little difference between the majority and the minority report. but the difference is essential in this: Both provide for speedy legislation. but one provides for a select committee. to which shall be referred all legislation upon this subject. while the other provides that a committee already constituted shall have charge of that matter. and I will present another reason why that committee should not have charge of this subject. Mr. Speaker. the reason for believing that a select committee on this subject will iubserve the best interests of all and of wholesome legislation lies in the fact that the distinguished chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. having been appointed at a meeting held at Willards Hotel of the representatives of the four cities. was constitutedby a vote at that meeting the spokesman to appear before the Speaker on the 18th day of December and lay before him the joint wish of the four cities competing for this site. namely. that a select committee of thirteen be appointed to which shall be referred all proposed legislation. The gentleman from Illinois appeared before the Speaker in his room as the spokesman of this delegation. the New York delegation was represented by Mr. BELDEN. Chicago and Illinois were represented by Mr. HITT. and I appeared on behalf of the city I have the honor In part to represent. The gentleman from Illinois . the present chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. made an earnest and eloquent appeal to the Speaker that he call together the Committee on Rules and report favorably a resolution of this character. The Speaker replied that he was hard pressed for time. He was then engaged in the arduouslabor of designating the gentlemen on the standing committees of this House. He said that he would consider the matter and encouraged us in the belief that our wishes would lie complied with when he secured time. Congress adjourned three days later for the holiday recess. after the reconvening of Congress the subject has been pressed hard upon the attention of the Speaker. and he has been unable until this time to securea report from the Committee on Rules. which has been submitted today. With these observations I submit. Mr. Speaker. that the majority report should receive the vote of the members of this House."
510006222|The gentlemans time has expired.
510006223|If it be the pleasure of the gentleman from Kentucky. I would like him to take his time now.
510006224|How much time is there?
510006225|Mr. Speaker. I request permission to extend my remarks in the RECORD.
510006226|The gentleman from Missouri requests leave to extend his remarks in the RECORD. Is there objection?
510006227|I yield to the gentleman from Kentucky thIrty minutes. He can take the whole of it now or reserve such portion of it as he may think proper to reserve.
510006228|Then I will yield three minutes of that thirty to the gentleman from Illinois .
510006229|I propose to use the three minutes allowed me for the purpose of replying to the statement of the honorable gentleman from Missouri in regard to the compact that is alleged by him to have been made between the representatives of the four cities competing for this fair. There was no compact made by any representatives that I know of. and I was present on the occasion to which the gentleman refers. There was simply a motion made and carried into that conference. in which were represented the four cities competing for the fair. to the effect that a committee of one from each of the cities should be created to wait upon the Speaker and ask him to call the Committee on Rules together for the piwpose of requesting that committee to report a proposition to the House in favor of a special committee.
510006230|Will the gentleman yield for a question?
510006231|No. sir. I have not time.
510006232|I wanted to ask the gentleman if he was opposed to that resolution.
510006233|I was in favor of that resolution. and I believe I moved its adoption. The committee was agreed to. and the object of creating it was then stated to be to have it wait upon the Speaker to ask that he would call the Committee on Rules together before the holidays. so that a special committee might be appointed before the holiday recess. in order that during that recess it might mature the necessary legislation and have it ready to report to Congress on its reagsembling in January. The genitleman from Illinois. the chairman of the Cowmittee on Foreign Affairs . represented Chicago. and it has just been stated by the gentleman from Missouri that he did. with that committee. appear before the honorable Speaker and urge him to call the Committee on Rules together. and when that mission had been performed by the honorable gentleman from Illinois he had discharged every obligation that was imposed upon him by that joint council or conference. It was simply for the purpose of facilitating action by urging the appointment of a special committee before the holidays. that was the very turningpoint in all this matter. That special committee was not appointed. from no fault of any one of the cities or their representatives. I want to reply to another point. There was no agreement on the part of any representative from Chicago that this special committee should be composed in any particular way. On the contrary. the Chicago representatives expressly declined to expressto the Speaker any choice as to the composition of the committee. so far as they were concerned. it was to be left entirely to him. Now as to whether the existing committee is a fair one or not. let gentlemen look at the Committee on Foreign Affairs. which has taken jurisdiction of this question and is now ready to report a bill in regard to it. Five of the members of that committee. Messrs. KETCHAM. ROCKWELL. FITCH. ANDREW. and ScRNTON. live nearer to New York than to any other of the competing cities. Four members of the committee. namely Messrs. MORROw. COLEMAN. HOOKER. and MCCREARY. live nearer to St. Louis than to any other of the competing cities. only three of the members. Messrs. HIrr. DUNNELL. and CHIPMAN. live nearer to Chicago. and only one lives nearest to Washington. so that if any city has a right to complain of the composition of the committee it will be the city of Washington.
510006234|Mr. Speaker. I have one minute of my time left and I would like to be permitted to use it to reply to the gentleman who has just sat down.
510006235|Unless there be objection. the gentleman may proceed.
510006236|I desire to state In reply that the explanation of the gentleman is simply a special plea. The gentlemen that he was treating with were not hunting around for little loopholes to creep out of an honorable compact.
510006237|There was no compact.
510006238|The resolution came from the city of Chicago and was delivered to the representatives of the city of St. Louis. I was one of the representatives from my State appointed to meet that committee in conference for the purpose of securing a special committee of thirteen. and until the representatives ofChicago found that they had an advantage in this bill they never dreamed of withdrawing from that compact. We may as well state the plain facts in connection with this matter. because honorable men have got topass upon it. That is the truth and the whole truth. The other three cities understood that there was an invitation to meet them in conference for this very purpose. and the purpose was carried out by them in good faith. and we never heard that you did not intend to keep faith with us until it was understood just what sort of a bill was being prepared by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
510006239|I ask the getitleman from Kentucky [r. McCREARY] to yield me half a minute.
510006240|I yield the gentleman half a minute.
510006241|I want to state to the House again that there was no compact in this matter. we had nobody to make a compact with. I deny the right of any four or five gentlemen to meet in a parlor of Willards Hotel and make a compact which will bind this House.
510006242|Well. if you did not intend to keep it. you never ought to have invited honorable men to meet you in conferenc3.
510006243|We kept just what we agreed to keep. and we went and asked the Speaker to call the Committee on Rules together. so that there might be a special committee appointed.
510006244|"Mr. Speaker. as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs I had no desire at the beginning of this session to be intrusted with the responsibility of considering worlds fair propositions. neither had I any desire to hear my colleague from Illinois and my colleague from Missouri disagree about a compact alleged to have been made with regard to the appointmeat of a special committee on the worlds fair. as they have done this evening. One month ago various bills bearing on the worlds fair were referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Committees of this House. I believe. are appointed to take charge of such measures as are referred to them. Therefore. when we found that bills had been! ent to us in regard to a worlds fair to be held at St. Louis. at Chicago. and at Washington. and when memorials and petitions signed by two hundred thousand men asking for the worlds fair at New York were also sent to us. there was nothing for the committee to do but to take eharge of the business. and not have any man ""shake his gory locks"" at us and say ""the worlds fair failed because the Committee on Foreign Affairs failed to promptly perform its duty."" The Committee on Foreign Affairs held a meeting soon after it was appointed by the Speaker and examined these bills. and they were referred to a subcommittee. of which I was a member. We bad no time to spare. Members of this House who are familiar with past legislation in the United States and members who are familiar with legislation in France and in other countries where international exhibitions have been held know how much time it takes to get ready for a worlds fair. When the Philadelphia exposition was held in 1876 in honor of the one hundredth anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. the act of. Congress which authorized that exposition was approved on the 3d day of March. 1871. five years before the exposition was held. The necessary legislation for the late expesition at Paris was granted four years before the exposition was held. Therefore the Committee on Foreign Affairs felt that not only was it their duty to consider such bills and memorials as were sent to them. but that there should be no waste of time. no delay in this great movement. It is true that our committee was not regaled with the wit and the wisdom. the oratorical jewels and gems. that fell from the lips of tbe distinguished Depew. of New York. and the able and accomplished governor of Missouri. and the energetic and intellectual mayor of Chicago. and the zealous and accomplished committee of Washington. but we nevertheless went to work in good faith. as was our duty. and as would have been the duty of any committee appointed by his honor the Speaker. and have nearly completed our work. We have held many meetings. We heard nothing about the agreement and we cared nothing about the agreement which the gentleman from Missouri presents one way and which the gentleman from Illinois presents another way. In the faithful discharge of duty the subcommittee took up the worlds fair proposition and made a report to the full Committee on Foreign Affairs this morning. and the Committee on Foreign Affairs could make its report tomorrow to the House of Representatives if it was desired. When I state the propositions that the committee has agreed upon. no one can say that a select committee should be appointed because the Committee on Foreign Affairs has acted unfairly or without justice to all. The first great proposition now confronting this Congress and the country is as to whether we should have a worlds fair in 1892 or not. I want to say. Mr. Speaker. that I. for one. am not only in favor of it today. but I was in favor of it in the last Congress. I believe as an American citizen and I believe as an American Congressman that there should be an American exposition held to commemorate the four hundredth anniversary of the discovery of America. I believe that patriotism. gratitude. national pride. everything which should gladden the heart of an American citizen. demands that we should give proper recognition to the four hundredth anniversary of the discovery of America. Thus we will pay proper tribute to the memory of Columbus. thus we will cultivate social and commercial relations with the nations of the world. thus we will present to the world the history. the resources. the arts. and the industries of this the greatest Republic in the world. Thus will we also show a proper appreciation of the wisdom and the courage of the founders of this Republic. and thus. too. we will show proper respect for those grand men who. by their wisdom and statesmanship. framed that Constitution which the great Gladstone said was ""the most wonderful work ever performed by the brain and purpose of man."" .The Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously agreed that a worlds fair should be held in 1892 to commemorate the four hundredth anniversary of the discovery of America. That is the first proposition. The other propositions agreed upon by the committee are as follows: Second. that a national commission shall be constituted to be charged with the control and management of the fair. third. that foreign nations shall be invited to take part. fourth. that foreign exhibits shall enter the United States free of duty. fifth. that the United States exhibits shall be provided for by the United States. and. sixth. that the question of the location of the worlds fair shall be submitted to the House of Representatives without any recommendation by the committee. Now. Mr. Speaker. is there anything in these propositions agreed on by the committee to alarm any person or to show that any member of that committee is prejudiced in behalf of New York or Chicago or St. Louis or Washington. I have been repeatedly asked where I desired .he worlds fair held. but I have uniformly refused to state what city I preferred. I have always believed that the location of the worlds fair should be fixed by the members of the Iouse of Representatives. and as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs I determined to sit as a fair juror. unpledged and uncommitted. I wish. Mr. Speaker. to ask this question. and I wish the gentleman who follows me in this debate. and I do not know who he will be. to answer it. What necessity is there now for a select committee to consider worlds fair bills when the committee to which all the worlds fair bills have been referred is ready to report and can bring that report into the House tomorrow morning. and will do so if allowed. and will leave to the members of the House of Representatives to name the city where the worlds fair shall be held? If we are to have a fair the sooner we have a bill containing proper legislation and act upon it the better. I have already said more on this question than I expected. I wish to say in conclusion that I believe the time has come when the members of the House should come to a conclusion in regard to the worlds fair. and this conclusion should be arrivedat without prejudiceor passiou. or improper rivalry. We should regard it with business sense and with fairness. and with a determination to have the greatest fair the world has ever seen. and with a desire to commemorate the four hundredth anniversary of the discovery of America by Columbus in a way becoming to the greatest people and the grandest country onthe earth. I yield now five minutes of my time to the gentleman frm Michigan ."
510006245|Mr. Speaker. ordinarily I would not contend for what is called upon this floor the right of a committee because I happened to belong to it. but if in the first place it had been proposed to refer the matter of a worlds fair to a select committee I should have sat silent in my seat and acquiesced most cheerfully in the action of the House. But the matter has come to our committee. It came to our Committee on Foreign Affairs in the last Congress. It has returned there. and in this Congress as in the last I have been placed on the subcommittee to consider the whole subject. I find the gentlemen who advocate the resolution of the gentleman from Ohio desire certain things. I say. most emphatically. to the House that every one of those things which the gentlemen request. which they insist upon here and seek to gain through the medium of a select committee. has already been decided in their favor by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. They wish the worlds fair. We propose to report it favorably. They wish the nations of the world to be invited. We have decided in fivor of that. They wish that arrangements shall be made with the Treasury Department by which exhibits may be brought over free of duty. We have decided also in favor of that. But the crowning question of all is that they wish no prejudice. no undue influence. no moral force to be added in favor of any place by the report of the committee. and. Mr. Speaker. the very first act of the committee was to rw olvo to leave that as an open question for the House under some plan to be prepared and submitted by us. Now. what isthe matterwith us? A MEmBR. You are right.
510006246|That is the question. The gentleman from Missouri and the other gentleman from Missouri may think that they can do better or have a defter hand at drawing a bill for a worlds fair than we can. but the House in its wisdom has voted to confer that duty upon us. and now this is an afterthought to take it away from us. But. if we are pursuing the course which the majority of the House seems to desire. the only question is. not whether the course is right. because you agree that it is. but whether we are the men to carry it out in a proper manner. Gentlemen may sugarcoat the pill as they will. It is clear that somebody wishes to be a very great man on the special committee. and I do not know who it is.
510006247|How much time has the gentleman consumed?
510006248|The gentleman from Michigan consumed four minutes.
510006249|I now yield five minutes to the gentleman from Mississippi .
510006250|Mr. Speaker. the Speaker of this House of Representatives pursued the precedent established inthe last Congress. where bills of this character were first introduced and referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs: first. a bill looking to the celebration of the centennial of the adoption of the Constitution of the United States. a measure. I am sorry to say. that failed. though it was one of the most important for consideration that could possibly have been suggested to people whose liberties are held and whose Constitution has been copied by a large portion of the republics of Central and South America. and another measure for the celebration of the quadrocentennial of the landing of Columbus in 1492. These were referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. and in so referring them at the present Congress I repeat that the Speaker of the House was pursuing the precedent heretofore established in regard to bills of this character. referring them to the committee where they properly belong and to which committee alone they should be referred. I beg to say to my friend from Missouri . therefore. who upon his first appearance on the floor has presented his views with great suceinctness and clearness on this proposition. that there was not any other committee. save the Committee on Foreign Affairs. to which the Speaker of the House could have referred such a proposition. As to the agreement alluded to by my friends the gentleman from Missouri and thegentleman from Illinois . with reference to a conference held by the various respective cities and their representatives competing for the site of this exposition. I know nothing and knew nothing. and I think the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs were ignorant of the fact. It has been said by the gentleman from Missouri . to whom I have already referred. that a committee constituted of the friends of the respective competing cities. that is to say. a committee composed of three from New York. three from Chicago. three from St. Louis. and three from the Federal city of Washington. where the Government sits. would be undoubtedly a more impartial committee to prepare and present a bill for the consideration of the House than the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In this I beg to differ with my honorable friend. If we have a standing committee. to whom under the rules of the House and to whom by the nature of the subject the matter has been referred. capable of dealing with it and not pledged to any site. I ask if that would not be a more impartial tribunal as to the mode and manner of conducting this fair? As to ihe financial question. which is the most important. that can not be settled until the House itself has settled upon a site. and. as has been well said by the gentleman from Michigan. Judge CHIPMIAN. upon the first assembling of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. when these matters were brought to the attention of the committee by its distinguished chairman . the unanimous determination of the committee. the chairman himself. I believe. being the suggester and proposer of the proposition. was that we. as a committee. would not suggest in any bill framed by the committee a site. but would relegate that subject to the House. where it properly belonged. And with the exception of the supposition that because the honorable chairman comes from Illinois. and therefore would be in favor of Chicago. a very natural supposition probablyI say that. with the exception of that gentleman. I do not know today the opinion of a single member of the committee in regard to his preference as between the four cities named as the site to be selected. And. Mr. Speaker. in regard to the proposition that because the Committee on Foreign Affairs chances to be presided over by the gentleman from Illinois as chairman of that committee it would be influenced in its action in regard to the matter. I beg to say that I do not so understand the minds of the committee. The chairman is but a member or spokesman. and expresses the will of the committee. and I feel assured from my knowledge of the honorable gentleman that. so far from endeavoring to sway the inclination. judgment. orconclusion of the committee. the very fact that he is from Chicago or from the great State of Illinois would make him more careful. more modest. more prudent. and more considerate in this matter than otherwise.
510006251|If the gentleman understood me as saying anything that he could construe into an expression that he has just used. that I thought the gentleman from Illinois would have any influence over the committee. the gentleman is mistaken. I did not say anything of that kind.
510006252|The time of the gentleman has expired.
510006253|I just want a moment.
510006254|I yield to the gentleman from Mississippi.
510006255|I simply wanted to conclude. upon the courtesy of the gentleman from Kentucky. by saying that I am satisfied that any other city which is a candidate for the location of the worlds fair. if the committee proposed by the majority is not appointed and the matter goes to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. need not be apprehensive because the gentleman from Illinois . the chairman of that committee. is from a State in which one of the cities mentioned is located. and that therefbre there would be any feeling in that committee in favor of that locality. Mr. Speaker. this question of the celebration of the adoption of the Constitution and the celebrating of the quadrocentennial of the landing of Columbus in this country was originated in the city of Washington by aboard of promotion. and extending all through the Fiftieth Congress measures relating thereto werereferred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. and that board of promotion. through its intelligent secretary. repeatedly came before the committee during the last Congress in order to urge them. and if we are to have a centennial of the landing o Columbus in 1492. and if it be held in one place or another. certainly the city of Washington had the honor of suggesting that it should be held.
510006256|The time of the gentleman has expired.
510006257|How much time have I left? I believe I have five minutes left.
510006258|The gentleman has five minutes left.
510006259|I reserve that five minutes.
510006260|I yield five minutes to the gentleman from New York .
510006261|Mr. Speaker. I have noticed that no committee orno member of the House is ever inclined to give up anything that he is entitled to except a little portion of his salary or something of that kind.
510006262|And particularly if it belongs to anybody else.
510006263|And they are always more generous for their brethren than for themselves. I remember that in the Fortyninth Congress I made a struggle to relieve the Judiciary Committee from a large portion of the business with which they were burdened and give it to the Committee on the Revision of the Laws. I think I demonstrated that the Committee on the Revision of the Laws was so constituted by the JA.wuuA1Y 16. Speaker that they were able to grapple with any of the questions that were perplexing the Committee on the Judiciary. and I should have succeeded in making that division in the House except that the able gentlemen who were upon the Committee on the Judiciary opposed it and beat us by a very small majority. Now. I have noticed this morning thot. while we have spent in debate upon the minority report and in favor of it nearly fortyfive minutes of time. every gentleman who has spoken upon that question. except my friend from Illinois. who had three and a half minutes of time. every gentleman who spoke upon that side of the question was a distinguished member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. and there it seems to hold good that no member of the House or no committee of the House wants to give up anything that it or he finds he has got possession of. Why. Mr.Speaker. the House did notcontemplate. when they adopted this rule in reference to the appointment of committees and referring the relations of the United States to foreign nations. that they were referring to that committee any question growing out of either the location or holding or the providing legislation for the worlds fair in 1892. A gentleman had already introduced a resolution for this legislation on the 9th day of December. providing for a special committee of nine members. to whom all these questions were to be referred. and had it not been for the engrossment otherwise of the Committee on Rules this resolution for a special committee would have been brought into the House soon after the 9th of December. and this special committee would have been appointed and announced to the House on the 21st of December. when the Committee on Foreign Affairs was announced to the House. and all of these bills would have had a proper place and an appropriate committee to go to. and there would not have to be any stretch of interpretation of the rules in order to find a restingplace for bills that were introduced for the worlds fair in 1892. And now the committee report this rule. and they report it with the provision that a committee shall within three days submit to the House some fair proposition by which the House can determine where the worlds fair will be held. and. when that is done and the determination is made fairly by the House. let all of us. whether we are in favor of Washington. St. Louis. or Chicago. or whether we are in fivor of the metropolis of America as the place of holding the worlds fair [applause]-let all of us unite heartily and give our aid to the committee appointed by the Speaker. that this thing can have perfect legislation. that this fair may be an honor to the country and an honor to the occasion which it is given in honor of.
510006264|I yield ten minutes to the gentleman from New York .
510006265|I am in favor of the majority report of the Committee on Rules. I am in favor of a select committee. and never as a member of the delegation from New York have I been in favor of anything else since they entered into the agreement with Chicago. St. Louis. and Washington that they would have a special committee. We think that the way to make haste is to have a committee appointed for one special business. We think that the representatives of the various cities can agree how they should take this vote in the House and what kind of a bill they would present. and let the result be determined by a vote in the Househow that vote shall be taken. that the lowest city and the next lowest shall drop out. to agree upon that in committee. and therefore have it a finished work before this House. and let the House dispose of it. We believe in that. and. therefore. Mr. Speaker. we have not presented a bill for the holding of the fair in the city of New York. As I understand. they have had no bill for the city of St. Louis. none for the city of Washington. and none ibr the city of New York.
510006266|That is an error.
510006267|Have you a bill for the city of New York?
510006268|The gentleman from Tennessee [Mr. HouR] introduced a bill for the city of Washington and another gentleman introduced a bill for the city of St. Louis.
510006269|Mr. FRANK. I know. introduced a small bill which did not represent the committee. Mr. Speaker. the delegation from the State of New York unanimously requested me to present the bill at the proper time. and I have been waiting for this committee ever since. as you. sir. very well know. I tried to keep Chicago and Washington and St. Louis off from the Speaker all the while he was making up his committees. The gentleman from Illinois and myself tried to keep them away. so that the Speaker might distribute the members of this House. as I think he has done. for the best advantage of the Republican party. .We succeeded in doing that. but we expected that this committee would be appointed by him. and we have waited upon our arms from that time to this in that expectation. We have done this without meaning any disrespect to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. because we entered into this arrangement. knowing it to be a fair and reasonable one. before the Committee on Foreign Affairs was appointed. and now we ask this of the House in justice and in fairness to Washington. to Chicago. to St. Louis. and to New York.
510006270|I yield two minutes and a half to the gentleman from Illinois .
510006271|Mr. Speaker. the question before the House. as I understand it. does not affect the rights or the interests of either of the cities which are competing for the site of the worlds fair of 1892. The proposition in the resolution offerad is to take from one of the standing committees of this House legislation which has been properly and regularly referred to it and to transfer that legislation to a committee to be created specially by this House. Now. before a proposition of that kind is carried. I say that in justice to the members of this standing committee some reason should be given why the committee which is invesfigating the subjectmatter is regarded as incompetent to discharge fully and fairly that duty. This resolution is unprecedented in the history of the House. Nevernever. I repeat. Mr. Speaker. has legislation been taken from a regular and permanent committee of this House without the consent of the members of that committee. The gentleman from the State of New York stated here awhile ago that in the Fortyninth Congress he undertook to do what is proposed in this resolution. by taking from the Committee on the Judiciary certain matters that. were referred to that committee. and that the 1Iouse refused to take that legislation from the Committee on the Judiciary. The gentleman. from New York who has just taken his seat speaks as. though that State were not represented. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has two members from the State of New York. and I want t6: ask that gentleman what there is in the character of either or both of those New York men that he is unwilling to trust this legislation with them ?
510006272|We are quite willing that they shall go on the special committee.
510006273|Very well. sit down. then. and vote to retain this legislation before the committee which now has possession of it.
510006274|Oh! we do not propose to do that.
510006275|New York has two representatives on the committee. New England has two representatives. the Southern States have two representatives. and the Pacific coast is represented in the person of Mr. MORROW. A fairer committee can not be selected by the Speaker. [Here the hammer fell.]
510006276|I reserve the balance of my time.
510006277|I yield five minutes to the gentleman from New York .
510006278|With the gentlemans permission I will take my five minutes later.
510006279|Then I yield five minutes to the gentleman from. New York [Mr. TurNERI.
510006280|Mr. Speaker. there is one point that seems to have escaped the observation of the able gentlemen who have. addressed the House on this subject. that is. the eminently fair propo-. sition. the entirely impartial :proposition. that this House shall firstf determine whether this worlds fair shall be held east or west of the Alleghanies! Did it occur to the astute gentleman presenting thi proposition that the great imperial city of New York lies east also of the Hudson? Would it not be equally fair. Mr. Speaker. to ask this House to determine whether we should hold the worlds fair east or west of the Mississippi or east or west of the Hudson? It is. in my judgment. Mr. Speaker. an unfair attempt to forccmembers living west of the Alleghanies. whose first choice might not be that marvel by the lake. to vote to hold the worlds fair west of the Alleghanies. with the idea that then we who are so unfortunate as to live east of that bridge of mountains might possibly come to the assistance of the gentlemen from the city by the lake. It is proposed. I believe. Mr. Speaker. because the men who favor the city of Chicago realize and know that when the sober second thought is taken upon this proposition. when members have voted once for the city which. they represent or the city which is the center of the district they repi resent. when they have paid to St. Louis. and to Washington. and to Chicago the compliment of their first vote. then. when the sober second thought is taken by the members of this House. the claims of the great imperial city of New York will stand out preeminent above all others. and it is for that reason. sir. that they want New York. the giant. excluded from the ring. This I say is an eminently unfair proposition that is attempted to be foisted upon this House. I have not had the advantage of years of experience here. nor of extensive acquaintance with previous debates upon this floor. but I appeal to the oldest member here. and I ask. who ever heard of a proposition like this to be decided upon sectional. lines? Who ever heard of the East being divided against the West? It is bad enough to have had the North and the South divided against each other. but here is a proposition to introduce a new line of demarkation and to force together As allies elements which are as wide. apart as the poles. And this proposition comes to us In the guise offairness ! I have no desire. Mr. Speaker. to tespass further upon the indulgence. of this House. If this were simply a question whether the Committ6e on Foreign Affairs should alone discuss the matters of detail. leaving to this House the determination of the site of the fair. that would bej a different question. But unfortunately there is an extremely largei colored gentleman in the fence. What we complain of is this insidious. this covert. I think I may safely say this unfair effort to take advantage of a seemingly fair proposition in such a manner that the voice of every Representative east of the Alleghanies is silenced and his constituency unheard.
510006281|I now yield five minutes to the gentleman from New York .
510006282|I will reserve my five minutes.
510006283|The gentleman can have five minutes now if he wants to occupy the time.
510006284|I prefer to reserve it. with the permission of the gentleman.
510006285|I yield five minutes to the gentleman from Maryland .
510006286|"Mr. Speaker. every member here desires that there shall be a great exposition. and whether it be held in one place or another I am most concerned that it should be worthy of the whole country. The exhibit at Paris from this country was not adequate. This fair of 1892 should be worthy of us and of our country. I have no sympathy with the idea of hawking this projectabout upon the basis of municipal subscriptions of stock. It should be national and broadintensely national and in every sense broad. For that very reason the committee charged with the duty of locatingthe fair should be special. There is enough work for a special committee to do. and it must be done promptly. The Committee on Foreign Affairs. I apprehend. with the demands of other questions upon their attention. have not time to attend adequately to this subject. Under the rules the ""relations of the United States with foreign nations. including appropriations therefor"" are referred to that committee. The propositions for the exposition at Melbourne and the exposition at Paris were properly so referred. and I only regret that we had not a better exhibit in the last of those expositions. I assume it is not the fault of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Now. Mr. Speaker. I am not willing to cast any aspersion upon the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There is not a better committee in this House. I have the highest respect for all its members. I do not know any man in this House better equipped to act on this subject or to whom I would more willingly confide any legislation than the honored chairman of that committee. But it is. I think. no aspersion upon the committee to adopt the majority report. Every member of that committee has some bias. I fear that I have bias. every member here has it. it is more universal than the "" grip."" Herbert Spencer says that bias is something of which a man himself is unconscious. The majority report of the Committee on Rules has made provision for counteracting the effect of this bias. which influences all men and of which all are unconscious. Daniel Webster says that any man accustomed to selfexamination knows that there is something in himself which makes him care more for the community which is nearest to him than for one that is farther away. The report of the majority of the committee proposes to neutralize that bias. and thus guard against its influence. It proposes to make this matter representative and national. I find that a body elsewhere has appointed a committee embracing seven Senators from west of the Alleghanies and seven from cast of the Alleghanies. with a fifteenth man added as chairman. I find on the Committee on Foreign Affairs eight men on one side of the Alleghanies and five on the other. There are no better men than these gentlemen. but they have this bias of locality. of which they and I alike may be unconscious. The proposition here is to give a committee with six members on one side and six on the other. with a chairman chosen by the Speaker. In this way provision is made for a countervailing balance of personal or locality interestsprovision that every section may be heard. that all these sites may be considered. Then. as. at Paris. the young Republic of France has held in her own capital the greatest exposition the world has yet known. her sister Republic of this country. without halting many days upon the question of site. will goodbumoredly decide through her representatives here upon the place where this greatest of all republics shall bold the greatest of all exhibitions In 1892."
510006287|I yield one minute to the gentleman from New York [Mr. CuxmrsNcs.
510006288|Mr. Speaker. that the American people are interested in the woros fair is known to every member on this floor. and their interest in It is such that they will tolerate no trickery in legislatiojp. The bill should go to a special committee. I appeal to the record forpiecedent. Was the bill providing for the worlds fair held during the centennial year of our independence referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs? Was It referred to the Committee on Commerce? No. go back to the record. and you will find that it was referred to a select committee. whose chairman was Mr. Hopkins. of Pennsylvania And that gallant soldier and statesman from Massachusetts. General NATHANIEL P. BANKS. now a member of this House. was a member of that committee. You will also find that the bill in relation to the worlds fair held in New York during the administration of Franklin Pierce was also referred to a select committee. All that the city of New York asks. all that the people of the State of New York ask. all that the people of the American Union ask. is a fair. square deal and no trickery. In the light of precedent this measure should go to a special committee. Such a reference would be a fair and square deal. It would set at rest all charges of trickery and violations of compacts made before the holidays. and make the people both west and east of the Alleghanies and north and south of the Ohio feel that the choice of a site will be made upon the merits of the question alone [Here the hammer fell. ]
510006289|I yield for five minutes to the gentleman from New York .
510006290|Mr. Speaker. asa Representative of the State of New York I do not feel that I am bound to hold up that great city in all her claims. But as an old member on this floor. and as a friend of fair legislation. I think it is due to the city of Washington. to the city of Chicago. and to the city of St. Louis that the New Yorkers in all that they do on the floor of this House should give to these three cities all the fairplay they deserve. As to the question of respect or disrespect in forming a new committee. let me say that a special committee was called for in a resolution introduced in the first week of December. So there is nothing new in that point. We find many special committees in the House. The House today has a Special Committee on Irrigation of Arid Lands. Certainly the matters which go to that committee germanely belong to the Committee on Agriculture. We find also a Committee on Immigration and Naturalization. and it was created only because another committee had more business to do than they could properly bring before this House. That is the reason why a special committee was formed and the subject was not left to the Committee on Labor. We also have a special committee to investigate the proposition of the purchase of certain ballotboxes. and instead of referring the whole matter properly to the Committee on Elections we chose to create a special committee by a resolution. So I say. Mr. Speaker that the argument of the gentleman from Illinois [Mr. HOPKINs1 has no basis at all. There is no disrespect in forming this special committee. but there is the utmost respect for fair play and good parliamentary order in placing in the hands of a special committee a matter which they can alone thoroughly sift to the bottom. and which they can bring into this House by the formulation of legislation the most perfect which is possible to be made. The city of New York asks no one here to advocate her claim. If this exposition shall be one fit to be made for the whole world. New York claims that the metropolis of America is the city to hold it in. And. sir. she does not come emptyhanded to ask the votes of this House. Ample means are provided. and brainy and active and honorable men will see that it is properly conducted. She simply asks a fair and equal show in this House with any other city. So that. Mr. Speaker. while they draw geographically a line I feel it is unfair to Washington. that it is unfair to St. Louis. that it is unfair to Chicago that any sectionalism should crop out in this matter in respect to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I believe it is the consensus of opinion of this House that in order to save friction. to avoid sectionalism. to make it a matter of fair play to all. this select con.mittee should be appointed. and I believe we can leave the honor of the House and the honor of that worlds fair in the hands of the Speaker. who would appoint it. Then all sites will have fair play in court. whether Chicago. St. Lowis. Washington. or New York.
510006291|I yield for five minutes to the gentleman from New York .
510006292|"Mr. Speaker. it has been tacitly understood by almost every gentleman on the floor of this House since we convened here on the 2d day of December that this great question in regard to the worlds fair should be referred to a special committee to be appointed by the Speaker. That has been the understanding with almost every gentleman on the floor of this House. and on the 9th day of December a resolution pointing in that direction was introduced and referred to the Committee on Rules for its action. Today the Committee on Rules has reported back that resolution amended so as to do justice to all the competing cities asking this thir to be located in their midst. A littlelater on the friends of Chicago. always active and never lacking when the interests of Chicago are to be protected. slipped in a bill and had it referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. That was on the 18th day of December. eleven days subsequent to the time when this resolution was referred to the Committee on Rules for its consideration. but between these dates a compact was solemnly entered into by the friends of St. Louis in this House. by the gentlemen representing Chicago in this House. and by the friends of Washington. who also occupy seats on this floor. as well as gentlemen from the State of New York. which was a solemn agreement that a committee of thirteen members should be selected. three from each of the four competing cities. and the Speaker to select the thirteenth man. who should not be a resident of either of the States or cities asking for the privilege of holding this fair within its jurisdiction. Now. sir. that was the position of the question until the Chicago Representatives. active and vigilant. as I have already suggested. found this bill in the hands of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. with its honorable chairman a resident of their own State. I do not mean in making this statement that that gentleman would deviate one hairs breadth from what would be right. But we are all of us sometimes a little weak in regard to the interests which we specially represent. I am a little ""gone"" on New York myself. I am free to admit it. I believe every gentleman on the floor of the House coming from a district asking the location of this fair is governed by a greater or less degree of prejudice in favor of it. no matter what city it may be that he favors. Now. there is no time to discuss the merits of this question here today. but I wish to say. and all I wish to say is this. that the people of St. Louis and the friends of St. Louis upon the floor of the House. and the friends of Washington. and the people of the city of New York will never be satisfied with any action that the House may take unless this matter goes to a committee in whom the entire people will have confidence. I do not mean. Mr. Speaker. to cast the least degree of reflection upon the Committee on Foreign Relations. They are all gentlemen of the highest integrity and fairness and entitled to the full confidence of this House and the people of the whole country. But that is not the question. I do not blame them for struggling and trying to keep control of this issue. But I do blame the friends of Chicago. after entering into an agreemnentsolemnly. toj ump away from that obligation without saying a word to their associates until after they had leaped the fence. and then tell us that they had gone about as far as they thought they ought to go in connection with the combination which had been formed. [Here the hammer fell.]"
