speech_id|speech
460047474|But the report says this will cost $800. which is more than the limit of the law.
460047475|The whole cost of three thousand copies will be $800.
460047476|And that exceeds the $500 which is the limit of the law.
460047477|Twothirds of that will be over $500. and I am willing to amend the report so the printing shall not exceed $500. as I understand that to be the limit.
460047478|Oh. no. you cannot amend the report.
460047479|The Clerk will read the provision of the statute.
460047480|This will cost over $800.
460047481|The Chair understands this is over $500.
460047482|The requirements of the law have been complied with in every respect in reference to this matter and the Chair has never known of the point of order being raised against the printing of public documents in this way. and yet a strict construction of the rule. or that clause of Rule 112 which includes propositions authorizing payments out of appropriations already madeas the appropriation has already been made out of which this money is to be paid for printing of this documentit would bring it within the technical language of the rule. Therefore the Chair is compelled to sustain the point of order. and the resolution is referred to the Committee of the Whole on the state of the Union.
460047483|I am directed by the Select Committee on the state of the laws respecting ascertainment and declaration of result of election of President and VicePresident to report back favorably a bill (H. R. No. 2023) to amend sundry provisions of chapter 1. title 3. of the Revised Statutes of the United States. relating to presidential elections. and to provide for and regulate the counting of the votes for President and VicePresident. and the decision of questions arising thereon. and to move that it be printed. and further. that it shall be considered on the 296h of January in the House after the morning hour. not to interfere with appropriation bills. and from day to day until disposed of.
460047484|Let the bill be read before the time is fixed for its consideration. It is an important subject. and I should like to hear the bill read.
460047485|I now renew the motion that I have made. that the bill should be printed and made the special order for the 29th day of January next after the morning hour in the House. not to interfere with appropriation bills. and from day to day until disposed of.
460047486|I ask that the gentleman shall accompany his motion with a request. also. that there shall be printed for the use of members of the House the sections of the Revised Statutes which are rep aled by this bill.
460047487|I have no objection to that.
460047488|If this be made the special order for the day named. I should like to have it understood that it is not to interfere with a special order already made by the House for the second day of Fobruary. that is. of the bill revising the navigation laws of the country. commonly known as the steamboat bill. It is a matter of some importance. and if passed at all by the House it should be passed at an early day in order to give time for its consideration in the Senate. I hope it may be understood that. if this be made the special order for the day requested. it shall not interfere with that other special order.
460047489|It will not interfere with that order. because. all special orders standing upon an equality. the one of earlier date takes precedence.
460047490|If I understand the Chair correctly. although this bill should run beyond the 2d day of February. it will still hold its place.
460047491|The steamboat bill. to which the gentleman alludes. would come up first. The Chair will state again the proposition of the gentleman from Indiana. so that there may be no mistake about it. He moves that the bill be printed. and its consideration set for the 29th of January. and from day to day thereafter until disposed of. after the morning hour. not to interfere with appropriation bills. and. in connection with that. the gentleman from Michigan proposes that there shall be printed. for the use of members. the statutes of the United States which may be repealed or affected.
460047492|I desire to inquire whether this bill is to be considered in the Committee of the Whole I
460047493|The gentleman from Indiana stated in the House.
460047494|Yes. sir. in the House.
460047495|It is not subject to the point of order that it shall have its first consideration in the Committee of the Whole on the state of the Union.
460047496|Let it be considered in the House as in Committee of the Whole.
460047497|That was not the gentlemans suggestion.
460047498|The proposition was to have it in the House.
460047499|The House can cut off debate or regulate debate at any time.
460047500|I hope it will be considered in the House as in Committee of the Whole. I desire an opportunity to examine into this matter. I have no desire to delay action upon it.
460047501|I do not hear very distinctly the statement made by the gentleman from Ohio.
460047502|The gentleman asks that this matter may be considered in the House as in Committee of the Whole.
460047503|The committee reporting this measure preferred that it should be considered in the House.
460047504|It will be in the House if my suggestion is adopted.
460047505|It will be open for debate under the fiveminute rule.
460047506|It may be under the fiveminute rule-
460047507|The House can regulate the debate.
460047508|I have understood from several gentlemen that they desire an opportunity to debate this at length.
460047509|If the gentleman reporting this measure to the House does not object to allowing ample debate upon it. I have no objection to the adoption of his suggestion.
460047510|The object of the committee is to have the bill fully discussed before the House.
460047511|I desire to be heard on it myself.
460047512|If there be no objection. the proposition of the gentleman from Indiana reporting this measure will be considered as agreed to.
460047513|Mr. Speaker. has the morning hour expired ?
460047514|There are a few minutes of the morning hour yet remaining.
460047515|I am willing. then. to admit that the morning hour has expired.
460047516|That will have to be done by unanimous consent. The Chair hears no objection. This will give the Committee of Ways and Means two full hours hereafter.
460047517|I move that the House resolve itself into the Committee of the Whole on the state of the Union to resume the consideration of the report of the Committee on Rules.
460047518|Mr. Chairman. I think it will be concededby the whole House that the Committee on Rules has reported for our consideration a codification and revision of the present rules that will not fail to receive our commendation. While I had my doubts. when this committee was authorized to revise the rules. as to the propriety of the action taken. T now confess that the rules as received from that committee and now before us incline me to receive the report of the committee with much favor. and if the action of the committee shall result in giving us substantially the code that is reported with the rules reclassified and arranged under appropriate heads. I think we shall very soon congratulate ourselves that this work ha been done. It is true. nevertheless. that we shall not agree in all the rules that have been presented for our acceptance. Whatever may be the ultimate action of the House when we come to the adoption of this report. whether it shall contain precisely the rules which have been reported or not. there is one thing. Mr. dhairman. I think we ought to insist upon in the adoption not only of each individual rule and clause under it. but of the report as a whole: that ihere shall be absolute clearness in every rule which we adopt. that there shall lurk about no rule any ambiguity. any uncertainty. or anything which will leave a doubt in any gentlemans mind as to what the rule may mean. We have in our present code many rules about which members of the House do and will disagree. concerning which we are not certain what will be the ruling of the Speaker. Now it seems to me that our good old English tongue is fully capable of clearly expressing the meaning of each individual rule and clause that we propose to adopt. I had rather have a bad rule. or a rule vicious perhaps to some extent in its consequences. but such that it shall be clearly understood in advance what must necessarily be the ruling under it. than to have abetter rule adopted for the guidance of the House about which there shall be more or less uncertainty and more or less of doubt. Very many of the contests which we have had in this House have been upon the construction of a rule. and we have sometimes fought for days oer a question. the whole of which turned upon the probable or possible construction that might be given to a rule. I submit. Mr. Chairman. that when we come down to business. and take up these rules one by one. and all the clauses under them. we owe it to ourselves. we owe it to those who shall come after us. to insist that there shall be the utmost certainty as to the necessary ruling that must take place under that rule. that the rules shall be absolutely clear of all ambiguity. of all doubt. and of every possible uncertainty. This report does not lessen so very much the number of rules. We have about as many rules and clauses under those rules in this new code as there are in the present. Some ten or eleven of our present rules have been dropped as obsolete. but we have substantially the present rules of the House rearranged. properly codified. and in a shape in which they can be easily found. I have made this general preliminary remark with regard to the sentiment which should prevail in the House in the adoption of these rules. Some bf the new rules that are recommendedwill in myjudgment. if adopted. work a wonderful reform in the transaction of our business. We are to have henceforth three calendars. I believe that to be a very great improvement. And I might refer to some other matters which are brought out in this report and which will not be overlooked by those who are called upon to advocate the recommendations of the committee. It was my purpose. Mr. Chairman. and is now. to call attention to some rules which I hope the House will change. and the first rule to which I will call attention is the rule that was adopted by the Fortyfourth Congress and which. is found on page 38 of this report as clause 3 of Rule XXI. Twill ask the Clerk to read it.
460047519|"We are all familiar with the history of this rule. which was adopted in the Fortyfourth Congress. Very much has been said upon it at various times while reports from the Committee on Appropriations haA been before the House or the Committee of .the Whole. I think if we will look at this rule candidly and seriously we shall find that it is absolutely oppressive. undemocratic. and wholly hostile to the genius of the Government itself. We are sent here as representatives of the people. Among other things. we are called upon to appropriate money to meet the expenses of the Government. We are not only to appropriate money to carry out the existing law. but we are also called on to appropriate money. from time.te time as the public interests may require. We are here responsible to the people who sent us. We are the representatives of the people. We are the people in Congress assembled. with the power. under the Constitution. to originate appropriation bills. We are not only responsible in the popular signification of that term. but we are so under the Constitution itself. and never before in the history of the Government has there been found among the rules of this House a rule like the one to which I call attention. It is simply this. that a majority of one committee. composed of eleven or.thirteen or fifteen men. the bare majority of that committee may absolutely and completely control the appropriations of Congress itself. It denies to the minority of the committee. it denies to the minority of the House. it denies to the majority of the House. and to the whole House the power either to obey the law or to meet public demands. A law says that an examining surgeon shall have one dollar and a half for examining a pensioner. The Committee on Appropriations comes in with a report. voted by a majority of that committee. and says that that surgeon shall receive $1. and only $1. I use this as an illustration. because in the present session we have seen this actually done in the report which came from the Committee on Appropriations for the payment of pensioners. Now. this may be carried to any.extent. The law says that the President shall receive $50.000 annually as his salary. It is in the power of a mere majority of the Committee on Appropriations to say he shall be paid $5.000. and it is utterly impossible for anybody in the House to change the result which the Committee on Appropriations has arrived at. unless it be to make it still less. We are here at the mercy of a single committee. putting its strong hand upon and closing our months. No man. either on the right or on the left of the Speaker. can make a motion to increase the amount reported by the committee not simply to what it ought to be in fact. but up to the point at which the law fixes it. During the last four or five years. since this rule has been in operation. we have seen many such instances where the public good called for a given sum to meet a particular demand. yet the Committee on Appropriations has said that that sum should not be granted. By what authority should any one committee thus close the power of this House. which is the representative power of the nation I The people who pay taxes. who bear the burdens of the Government. ask us to appropriate money that the Government may thereby provide for the material interests of all the people. I say it is a bad system of legislation which denies to the House the power to regulate the amount of money appropriated. It is disrespectful. it is derogatory to ourselves. And k venture to say that the gentleman who is the reputed father of that rule has never found the original of it in any legislative manual on the face of the earth. It is a rule known only to the Fortyfourth. the Fortyfifth. and the Fortysixth Congresses of the United States. it never before had a being elsewhere. Ithink the time has come in our financial affairs ard in an intelligent comprehension of the demands of the present hour when we should trust this House of Representatives. I believe that the majority of the House should be held responsible. I believe that the majority will be and ought to be held responsible. They will be held accountable with this rule or without it. In a democratic government like ours. to deny to the representatives of the people their right to legislate for the people as their interests may demand is unworthy of either side of the House. I hope to see that clause stricken out and that rule cease to exist. The majority of this House can control every appropriation bill and every item in every appropriation bill. they are bound to do it. If they are in the minority on any one item. then they will not be held responsible. but the party voting the item will be held to answer for it by the people. In my judgment we have arrived at a time when we may act with broader views than we acted ten or twelve years ago. just after the close of the war. We were cramped then - we were oppressed with burden and with debt. But we have got beyond the burden. The national debt today is not such a burden that Congress cannot act wisely. broadly. and liberally in the discussion of all questions and in the action upon them. Members have spoken about appropriating four. five. or six millions of dollars for the improvement of the waterways of this grand Republic. What are $6.000.000 when we consider all the harbors and lakes and navigable waters of this majestic Republic? What are $6.000.000. with all our vast resources and our unblemished credit? There are nations with half the resources which we have and with half our wealth. developed and undeveloped. which every year do thrice what we do for their material interestsyes. for their harbors and rivers. The people of this country have ceased to criticise their public servants in the appropriation of money which clearly has in view the real development of the country. I do not believe that the people will sustain a Congress in a wasteful expenditure of money. But the people are keenly alive to the present material interests of the country. That man is a statesman who votes liberallynot wastefully. but liberallyand intelligently for the development of those material interests. rather than the man who cavils how this bill or that bill may affect the party record that he shall array before his constituents at home. That rule which we have been acting under. and which we are compelled to act under today. is arbitrary and illiberal. It ought to give way to the pressing necessities of the people. This House. in its intelligence and in its responsibility to the people. should be intrusted with voting away the money of the people. We are in a financial condition to do it. What we need today is the developmient of our material resources. is the attraction of the attention of the people away from the sophistries of mere partisanship to those questions which lift up and make prosperous the people. and so make them happy and contented with the Government under which they live. I have said enough upon that single rule. The next rule to which I wish to call attention is the seventh clause of Rule XI. to be found on page 32 of the report. which reads: All proposed legislation slall be referred to the committees named in the preceding rule. as follows. namely: Subjects relating7. To commerce: to the Committee on Commerce. [but they shall report the bill known as the river and harbor bill. for reference to the Committee on Appropria. tions.] Mr. Chairman. it has been my honor to serve for four years upon the Committee on Commerce. Not only while a member of that committee. but since then. I have never wavered in my belief that it was for the interests of the Government and of the Treasury itself that the Committee on Commerce should prepare and report for passage a river and harbor appropriation bill. This question has been ably argued by the gentleman from Texas. the chairman of the Committee on Comnmerce. and very clearly and forcibly by the gentleman from West Virginia. a member of that committee. as well as by other members. and perhaps I need say nothing further upon this point. I am. however. constrained to say that the Committee on Commerce alone can prepare for report to this House a bill for the improvement of rivers and harbors. No matter how much wisdom the Committee on Appropriations may possess. no matter how laborious that committee may be. from the very circumstances surrounding it it is absolutely incapable of making or preparing a river and harbor appropriation bill. There is hardly a bill or resolution going to the Committee on Commerce which does not itself instruct that committee relative to this very work. The entire work of that committee eminently fits it to prepare bills to be passed by this House and by Congress forthe improvement of the rivers and harbors of the country. The amount of labor performed by that committee is simply enormous. The amount of pages of finely printed matter which that committee is compelled to read averages from twelve hundred to two thousand. This work must.be performed by that committee before it can make an enlightened report and present it to this House upon the subject of the improvement of the rivers and harbors of this great country. As one gentleman on this floor has truly said. the Committee on Appropriations cannot report back a river and harbor bill with one hours less labor than the Committee on Commerce have spent in preparing it. The ground must be gone over. When it is gone overthe committee is prepared to report the bill. until the ground is gone over no committee can be prepared to make it. If this be true. no revising committee can prepare that bill without going over the entire ground in precisely the manner in which it has been gone over by the Committee on Commerce. It has been stated as one reason why the Committee on Appropriations should consider this bill and report it back to the House is that if the Committee on Commerce should report a bill appropriating $8.000.000. the Appropriations Committee might report it back providing for an expenditure of $6.000.000. But when a bill comes back thus reduced by the Committee on Appropriations. great injustice may be done to some improvements. Every item must be considered thoroughly by the committee before passing or reporting the bill. I join with the gentleman from Texas in denouncing the attempt that has been made on this floor and in the newspapers of the country to characterize the river and harbor bill as a gigantic fraud or ""steal."" I say that no bill gobs through this House that can be better defended in honest. clear. openhanded debate than the river and harbor bills which have been passed here within the last four or five years. Take the sundry civil appropriation bill. which comes from the Committee on Appropriations-"
460047520|May I ask the gentleman a question?
460047521|If the river and harbor appropriation bill can be so well defended. will the gentleman say why it cannot come before the House for discussion in Committee of the Whole ?
460047522|It goes there under the rules.
460047523|Mr. Chairman. it can go to the Committee of the X20 Whole as it has gone frequently in the past. There is nothing in the rules now that prevents it from going to the Committee of the Whole. There is no reason why it may not go there. It can go there and undergo discussion as well as some other reports which come before the House and from the Committee on Appropriations. I was about to refer to the sundry civil appropriation bill. Frequently there is added to this bill by the conference committee a sum almost as large as we are in the habit of appropriating for rivers and harbors. We are not allowed to discuss those amendments incorporated into the bill upon the report of the conference committees. and let me tell the gentleman from Georgia. a member of the Committee on Appropriations. who now honors me with his attention. that within the last three years there have been found in sundry civil appropriation bills items which would not stand half the scrutiny that the river anti harbor bill has received.
460047524|And if the gentleman will allow me I will say that those items came generally from the republican Senate.
460047525|Very well. I am speaking of a mode of legislation. I am not charging upon the House or the Senate or any part of Congress a result that may be inevitable. I think that what has been said against the Committee on Coamerco in the past has been nnj ust. These reports have been made as the result of a great labor. It may be said. perhaps. that now and then we have provided for the improvement of a river having too little dignity as a navigable stream. yet in no instance. as the entleman from Texas said the other day. have we ever appropriated a dollar for the improvement of a river that has not been examined by the Engineer Department of the Government. pronounced upon favorably. and an appropriation recommended.
460047526|If the gentleman will allow an interruption. it seems pertinent to say here that the river Clyde. the great shipbuilding river of the world. has taken a century and a quarter to make. It was a mere purling rivulet through a marsh when. one hundred and twentyfive years ago. the apparently mad experiment of making it a navigable river was begun. and from time to time small appropriations for the same object have been made. so that now. when any nation wants to speak of its future prosperity as a commercial nation. with its own marine and marine establishments. it says that a particular river will be the Clyde of its country. And I apprehend that many of the appropriations now made by the Congress of the United States as small beginnings. and which are severely criticised. are like the early movements to convert the rivulet into the great commercial river of Scotland.
460047527|"I thank the honorable gentleman from Pennsylvania for his admirable illustration. I will not spend anymore time or ask the attention of the committee longer to this point. It has been so ably discussed that I do not doubt what the action of the House will be on that clause. I now ask attention to another rule only for a moment. Clause 2. Rule XXII. reads as follows: 2. Any petition or memorial excluded under this rule shaU be returned to the member from whom it was received. and petitions which have been inapprepriately referred may. by direction of the committee having possession of the same. be properly referred in the manner originally presented. This may not seem an important matter. and yet I allude to it. A member of the House deposits a petition in the box. He makes perchance a wrong direction of the petition. It goes into the hands of another committee. He makes a false direction to the petition inadvertently. He may have a choice where the petition shall go. It goes into the hands of a committee. and it is then to be reported back by that committee and sent arbitrarily to such a committee as this committee may select. My own judgment is the present rule is far preferable. The Committee of Ways and Means. as it found yesterday in its session. has possession of a bill which ought to have gone to another committee. It is better the committee should report it back and let the House determine where it should go. I do not believe that mypetition or my memorial should be at the mercy of a committee to which I may accidentally have sent it. I do not think that rule is an improvement at all. One other rule I will refer to before I leave the subject. According to a custom which for aught I know has prevailed since the fouudation of the Government. there comes to this House and Congress. as a high court of equity. a large class of private claims. I voted in the last Congress very cheerfully for the bill presented by the gentleman from New York. Mr. Potter. creating a court of claims which should relieve Congress from the adjustment of these private claims. Evidently these new rules make very slightprovision for the Private Calendar. Evidently the Committee on Rules was not anxious to enlarge the action of the House on tle Private Calendar. Now. sir. I think there is no disgrace to.day under which so much labor. or under which we any more labor. than we do in denylug to the Citizens of the country the honest payment of honest claims. If we refuse to take care of these claims. claims like the pension cases which come to us from every section of the country. claims that the law will not allow but whiehequity says ought to be paid. and so long as we thus hold to these cases just so long ought we to go to the Private Calendar and give them honest attention and honest treatment. The business of Monday. Tuesday. Wednesday. and Thursday cannot be set aside except by a twothirds vote. That is a good rule. It works well. It has been adopted since I have been a member of this House. I am in favor of it. and. sir. all the more rigidly we follow the rules. the less will our business be blocked and the more we may do for the country. When we come to Friday. a bare majority. by these new rules. is allowed to dispense with that day altogether. I say that Friday should be sacredly set apart for private business. and the same vote to postpone it should be required as is required for the postponement of public business. We should transact the private business of the country on Friday. and that day should be protected by a rule as stringent as that which protects the other days of the week. I served two years on the Committee of Claims in this House. during the Fortythird Congress. I know. and every gentleman who has served on that committee knows what a terrible gauntlet every bill has to run in order to secure a favorable report. There are men in the other branch of this Government. as well as in this. who have said that if they had a claim against the Government. no matter how just. they would not prosecute it. the difficulty of getting justice from the Government was so very great. It has been to our dishonor that we have asked men to defend the country. to uphold it with money. with blood. and with life itself and then have turned round and allowed their claims against the dovernient to be thrust aside to gratify the whim of those who are too economical to be just. We ought to be just to every man and woman who has a claim against the Government. Mr. Chairman. glory comes to the country that is just. glory comes to any government or any administration that is humanethat legislates for its constituent elements because they are a part and a parcel of the government. We forget the genius of our Government when we say to this man or to that man. ""Go your way."" We are in no need of any such kind. of conduct. We are amply rich and amply able to do justice to every man. from whatsoever section he comes. and we axe amply able to do justice to every rising. growing interest of this grand country of ours. I yield ten minutes to the gentleman from New York."
460047528|Mr. Chairman. it is not my purpose to engage in any general discussion of the questions involved in the report of the committee now under consideration. I shall confine myself substantially to the expression of my views in support of that portion of the report which requires what is known as the river and harbor bill to pass the ordeal of the Committee on Appropriations before it is considered by the House. My experience as a member of this House began with the Fortyfourth Congress. and each of the river and harbor appropriation bills which has been passed since that time has been passed under a motion to suspend the rules. without opportunity for discussion or amendment. I was one of those. Mr. Chairman. who entered a written protest against the passage of the first bill of that character in the first session of the Fortyfourth Congress. and I have seen abundant reason since that time for adhering to the position then taken by those who joined with me in that protest that this class of appropriations should be open for discussion and amendments the same as every other class of appropriation bills. Those who are familiar with political history will remember that in the pahay days of the democratic party it was the settled doctrine that the General Government should not engage in works of internal .improvements. While I concede that the modified condition of the times demands a departure to some extent from that line of policy. I am yet of the opinion that every question for the improvement of a river or a harbor should be able to stand upon its own merits. should be able to endure the ordeal of discussion. should be open to amendment and consideration. Nor do I subscribe to the idea which seems to prevail so extensively here that no one is interested in this question except the particular member whose harbor is to receive a benefaction 1rom Congress. I am interested in proper appropriations for the harbor of the city of New York as well as the members who have the honor to represent that portion of my State. Indeed. in a great sense I am interested with every other citizen in having all proper appropriations for every river and every harbor throughout the entire country which requires such appropriations. It is a mistaken opinion that the member residing in the county of Monroe. in the district adjoining mine. shall go to the room of the Committee on Commerce and there say what he thinks should be given to the mouth of the Genessee River. and that no other Representative is interested in that question. nor shall it be open to discussion when reported to the House.
460047529|I would like to ask the gentleman front New York a question. Suppose. under the revised rules. a river and harbor bill should be sent to the Committee on Appropriations. would not then a motion to suspend the rules be in order to pass the bill. precisely in the same manner as nowI
460047530|Most unquestionably that could be done. and that is the point which I was about to consider. What would be thought of a proposition made here to take a general appropriation bill out of the Committee of the Whole and pass it under the force of the previous question ? If the House by its action on the proposal of the Committee on Rules so far reconsiders the obnoxious practice of the last four sessions of Congress as to have this class of appropriations go to the Committee on Appropriations. I take it the House would never be led to adopt a practice which has thus far prevailed to provent the consideration of this. like other bills. in the Committee of the Whole. Undoubtedly that power exists and will exist wherever and from whatever committee this recommendation comes. But. Mr. Chairman. after the Committee on Commerce has examined this question and considered what rivers and what harbors ought in their Opinion to be provided for. it is yet a question whether the condition of the Treasury will justify the appropriations recommended. and that question is one mainly. if not exclusively. for the consideration of the Committee on Appropriations. I trust. sir. while I shall have the honor of a seat here I shall never again be called upon to witness the exantple of a Presidest of the nited States. in obedience to what he considered his duty as the Executive of the nation. charged with the execution of the laws. to send back to the House his approval of a river and harbor bill coupled with a declaration which he deemed he was bound in honor and conscience to make. that he would not expend the money provided in such bill any further than he deemed it warranted by the public necessities. Let this class of appropriations be guarded so carefully and adopted with such care and deliberation that they shall receive. as all appropriations ought to receive. the assent of the country and of those charged with the execution of the laws. It is this hasty. inconsiderate legislation which has grown up under this practice that is aimed at by the amendment under consideration. and. Mr. Chairman. lot me say in conclusion. it meets with my hearty approval.
460047531|I yield the balance of my time to the gentleman. from Illinois.
460047532|I would like to inquire how much time is left.
460047533|There are eight minutes of the hour remaining.
460047534|I understand the Committee on Rules to invite the fullest discussion. I suppose I shall be governed by these rules if they are adopted. I therefore shall not offer any apology for obtruding my views on the House at this moment. If I can understand the argument which has been urged in support of the proposed rule in regard to appropriations for the internal improvements of the country. it is that we need a committee. a standing committee of this House. to stand between the Treasury and the natural incapacity and greed of this body in its collective aggregation. Now. I might understand the force of this argument if we were living under the old system of confederation. when the legislative functions were committed entirely to one body. but. sir. our fathers. devised checks and safeguards against hasty and inconsiderate legislation. They adopted the dual system. They vested the legislative functions in a House of Representatives and in a Senate. It was the chief design of the latter body to afford a check on the hasty and inconsiderate action of the Representatives. who were supposed to. stand nearest the people. and with a view to this precise point. the distribution of the public revenues. in order to prevent the spoliation of tme lesser States by the greater. there was given to each State equal representation upon the floor of that illustrious body. Nor did they stop there. They went further. and armed the executive authority of this Government with the veto powerthe power which can require the reconsideration by this House of every measure which they shall see fit to pass. Now. sir. what in effect is this proposition ? . It is to create here in our midst a little senate of our own. It seems to me that that is entirely unnecessary. The facility with which distinauished members graduate from this House into the other renders it entirely superfluous. We can still get the benefit of their matured wisdom. Nor do I deem it necessary. Mr. Chairmanp that we bring in here this much despised veto power which was so very distasteful to our friends on the other side during the past session and exalt it as one of ourpenates. There is an impression in the country at large. a very general impression. that our rules are simply contrived to strangle. to stifle. and to paralyze the legislative energies of this House. I have heard them compared to the doubleentry system of bookkeeping which has been described as an invention of the devil to cheat honest men. It has been frequently saidI have read it in public journals within the last weekthat gentlemen of marked ability are not found on this floor. It would ill become mc to pronounce an opinion upon that point. I would not be considered an impartial or a competent judge. But I do say this as the result of my observation. that if a man wants to become a splendid cipher. if he wants to get a magnificent position of unimportance. if he wants tp become a real nonentity. let him come to Congress and let him get safely ensconced on the tail end of an average committee. and his hopes will be realized. Now. I hope to have an opportunity to vote in favor of the propositinu of the eloquent gentleman from Mississippi. I believe we should distribute these powers among the various committees. develop the ability to determine what appropriations are needed. and educate the House so we can know something about the river and harbor bill. and then we will not have our inability to comprehend the requirements of the situation thrown into our faces. as proposed here. by delegating the power intrusted to us as a House to one standing committee. I find. Mr. Chairman. [looking at his watch.] that eight minutes is a longer time than I supposed it was. [Laughter.1
460047535|You have half your time left.
460047536|I shall not without reason consume the balance of the time. but will gracefully yield the floor.
460047537|Mr. Chairman. I do not propose to occupy the attention of the committee for any long period of time. and I only scek the floor at the present time for the purpose of announcing that. toting the labors of the Committee on Rules. as they have reported the amended rules to the House. and comparing these rules with our existing rules. I am in favor of that report. It has been my fortune. Mr. Chairman. to be a member of this House for a number of years. and I venture to say I have never seen a better exposition of confusion worse confounded than is to be witnessed in the administration of our present rules. As I have often said. if I were endeavoring to find out hownot to do a thing. I would take for my guide in that regard the present rules of the House of Representatives. No man. I care not what position he may have upon the floor. knows how. when. or under what cilcuinstances to get at any question unless he first ascertains what is the will and wish of the Speaker of the House. and in order to do that. he must know that the Speaker is clear and coolheaded and consistent with himself. I appeal to every gentleman upon the floor if this is not the fact in the administration of our present rules. Their number is large. and in my judgment they are not consistent with themselves. and are incapable of intelligent comprehension. and it was in view of this fact that a codilication or revision of them became necessary. Now. taking the labor of that committee as a whole. and looking as I do to what I believe to be. or ought to be. the object of all parliamentary rulesthat is to say. the object of parliamentary rules should be to insure an intelligent consideration and dispatch of the business brought before the body of which those rules are the law of actionlooking as I do at what should be that object. I must approve generally the report of this committee. because I think those rules should be few and such as can easily be understood and can be readily enforced. Those rules should be such as will aid the majorityof the body in arriving at a conclusion of its business. having duo regard to the rights of the minority. I take. however. sonic exceptions to different rules which have been reported to this body by the Committee on Rules. I will say for that committee that it has reported the clearest. the simplest. and the most comprehensive set of rules that I ever saw for the guidance of a parliamentary body. Their work is entitled to the approbation of all who have studied parliamentary history. Compare the rules which this committee now reports with those at present existing. As between the two my judgment must pronounce in favor of those now reported. Under them Ibelieve that eiery preposition of the hmblest member of this body can receive its due consideration. I cannot say that that can be done under the present rules. Under the proposed rules as reported every committee can bring its work before the House. that cannot be done tnder existing rules. Under the rules as proposed it will be impossible for one or two members. as I have often witnessed upon the floor of this House. to keep the work of any committee which has taken months for preparation from being considered by this House. Under these proposed rules. therefore. the Beople who stand behind us by petitions. memorials. and bills will ave an opportunity to be heard. they will have their (lay in court. I observed particularly one or two remarks made by my -friend from Minnesota. A few moments ago he referred to what he deemed the injustice of the House of Representatives toward the private claims of the people. Sir. my experience does not accord with that of the eloquent gentleman from Minnesota. Too much of the time of this House is given to class. to special. to individual legislation. With your Private Claims Committee on the one hand and the Committee on Appropriations with its usurped jurisdiction on the other. the great public interests of this country have been made to suffer. We should put a check on this special and private legislation. The gentleman refers to the honest claimant that comes here. It is not the claims of such men that receive the most of our consideration. The honest claimant whom the gentleman describes is very seldom seen at our doors. There comes here a class of persons under the garb of those honest claimants who are too frequently here. who too frequently take up the time of this House. These new rules are rules for the people. for the public interest. rules which if enforced will give every class of the people an opportunity to be heard. And in this connection I will read an amendment which I propose to offer in due time. and which when offered I trust will receive the favorable consideration of the House. It is this: That Thursday in every week shall be set apart for the consideration of business en the Houss Calendar unless otherwise determined by a majority of the House. Now. I submit to my friend from Minnesota that we should put the public business of the country on the same footing that we have put private claims. I think that should be made one of the new rules of this House. I have noted in this report the exceptions which I take to it. as I have considered it. I think. with an endeavor to take an impartial view of it. I will now come to the subject of reports from the Committee on Commerce. I agree with my friend from Texas. the chairman of that committee. and with his associates upon the committee. that its duties should be performed as they now are. independently of other committees. I will ask him. however. to add a provision to the rule that the Speaker shall not. entertain a motion to suspend the rules for tlw passage of the river and harbor appropriation bill. but that the House shall have an opportunity to pass in review upon the labors of that committee. Now. I will give the reason why I shall support a proposition to let the labor of considering the improvement of rivers and harbors remain with the Committee on Commerce. It is new and independent legislation. not already fixed by law. Before I get through I will endeavor to show what I consider to be the proper functions of the Committee on Appropriations. When I first entered Congress. in the Fortysecond Congress. General Coburn. of Indiana. was a member of the Committee on Appropriations. He at that time proposed to divide the labors of that committee as is now proposed by the gentleman from Pennsylvania and by others. At that time I was heartily in favor of that proposition. But during all these years that I have been here my experience and observation have led me to believe that if we turn loose a half dozen committees upon the subject of appropriations it will be impossible to control the amount of those appropriations. I believe that it is for the interest of the people that the subject of appropriations should be committed mainly to one committee. I say this not out of any feeling with respect to my own committee. because if I considered that I should be jealous of its rights and should Speak jealously of its intelligence and its power of comprehending the duty before it. But. speaking in the interest of the people. in the interest of the public Treasury. in the interest of a proper control of public expenditures. I must say. what has been forced upon me contrary to my original convictions. that it is the duty of this House to have the subject of appropriations controlled by one committee. And why ? Not that the Committee on Appropriations shall originate any legislation. not that they shall bring into the House any new items. but that they shall be confined to what the law requires. And I. for one. announce to the House that I would be willing to strike out in Rule XXI the last words of clause 3. thus confining the Committee on Appropriations to the provisions of the existing law. and not permitting them to report matters over which they have no legislative jurisdiction whatever. Mr. Chairman. I sought the floor for the purpose merely of giving utterance to these views. and expressing the hope that in passing upon all these questions the House will look to the ills that we are seeking to fly from. and will take shelter under these rules which promise an intelligent consideration and dispatch of public business. I yield to my friend from Texas.
460047538|"Mr. Chairman. I only desire to occupy a few minutes. I have been a member of this House for some years. and ever since I have been here have been seeking to bring about some revision of our rules. I was glad. therefore. when the House adopted the resolution authorizing this revision to be undertaken. The report submitted by the committee presents to us a ehoicebetween the new and the old code. If it were left to me to decide which of these codes 1 would take. supposing that the new rules must be adopted without amendment. I should without hesitation prefer the old. objectionable as they are. Under an amendment of the rules adopted by the House at the commencement of this Congress the Committee of Ways and Means. the Committee on Coinage. Weights. and Measures. and the Committee on Banking and Currency. three committees certainly that deal with the most important questions submitted to our consideration. were authorized. as the public interest required they should be. to have priority over the other committees in reporting public business for the consideration of the House. To the Committee of Ways and Moans belongs the duty of reporting all bills affecting our revenue. to the Committee on Coinage. Weights. and Measures. everything affecting our coined money. and to the Committee on Banking and Currency. all subjects affecting the paper money. On these subjects the people of the United States are now demanding some sort of reform which they contend is necessary to their prosperity. In fact. monetary questions are now engaging the attention of the people of the civilized world. No country seems to have a monetary system with which it is perfectly satisfied. and I am sure that a largo body of our own people are not satisfied with the present monetary system of the United States with silver demonetized. A large number of our constituents believe that silver ought to be a part of the permanent money of the United States. unlimited in its coinage and unlimited in its monetary functions. I apprehend that those who thus think will not rest until they shall find some means to have their views incorporated into the statutes of the United States. Now. under this new rule what becomes of the Committee on Coinage. Weights. and Measures? What becomes of the ""dollar of our fathers."" which has created such a great sensation in the country within the last three or four years? Where does this committee go ? It is retired ignominiously to the rear. Adopt these rules. and where does the business of the Committee on Coinage. Weights. and Measures find a place on the Calendar of this House? At the tail of all other business. This committee has no precedence in the House. The Committee on Banking and Currency share the same fate. Both of these committees are deprived of the priority given them by existing rules. After the Committee on Coinage. Weights. and easures or the Committee on Banking and Currency has reported a bill (and they only report when their turn comes on the roster) their report goes to the foot of the public calendar. to be reached after all other business on that calendar shall have been swept away. The rule works on the other side of the question with equal force. Suppose a majority of this House should think it impolitic and unwise to continue the coinage of the silver dollar in limited quantities. and should desire a change of the law in that respect. as the present Secretary of the Treasury desires. and as a large part of the people of the United States unquestionably desire. how is that object to be effected? Under the new rules you could never change that legislation by any regular method of proceeding. the present status of the coinage laws must remain. What about your tariff? Some people want an increase of tariff duties. There are bills lying on the table of the Committee of Ways and Means proposing to increase duties on various articles. and there are some proposing a reduction of duties. Under the present rules. when the Committee of Ways and Means reports to this House a measure affecting the tariff it can invoke the will of the House to set a day for its consideration. and to be continued from day to day until disposed of. Can this be done under the newrules? The Committee of Ways and Means may report in preference to other committees. it may report at any time. but it cannot move to take the bill up for consideration until the morning hour has expired and until the unfinished business succeeding the morning hour shall have been disposed of. Who here does not know that sometimes fqr a month at a time we have never had a morning hour? Who fails to remember the struggles we have had upon some measures in the morning hour which could not be taken out of it? In addition to that. the unfinished business coming over is piled in the way. and must be disposed of before we can reach the great questions affecting the revenues of the Government. Now. as to questions of appropriation. There seems to be among some of our statesmen a mistaken view of their duties and responsibilities. and of the rights. privileges. and responsibilities of their fellowmembers on this floor. I beg to assure gentlemen that the majority on this floor are not held responsible to the minority for their conduct. When gentlemen assume that none but the Committee on Appropriations is worthy to be intrusted with the expenditure of the money of the people of the United States they assume a prerogative nowhere conferred upon them. Who has given to them the right to say that the Committee on Naval Affairs cannot faithfully. patriotically. justly. and wisely frame and report appropriations for theNavy Department? Why should the Committee on Appropriations have charge of this work in preference to the Committee on Naval Affairs? Why should the Committee on Appropriations prepare the Army appropriation bill in preference to the Military Committee. or the PostOffice appropriation bill in preference to the PostOffice Committee I There are but two arguments that have been used on this floor to justify the proceedingone a very plausible argument by the gentleman from Ohio. a gentleman who can throw around a fallacy more force than any man I ever heard in my life. He is a gentleman whose genius and great ability I have always admired. e comes to the House and tells us that there are two great committees of the House standing back to back. one raising the revenue and the other disbursing it. one saying how much taxation shall be collected from the people. the other how the revenue thus derived shall be expended. Why. sir. the Committee on Appropriations expends year by year. while the Constitution forbids you to make an appropriation passing beyond the term of two years. but is it so with the Committee of Ways and Means ? The laws we have on our statutebooks which give into our Treasury money that supports the Government are permanent laws. not made every two years like the appropriations for the disbursements of the Government. There is no parallel between the two. Every committee of this House which has to deal with a question of money knows as well as the Committee on Appropriations what amount of money comes into the coffers of the Government and what permanent laws remain upon the statutebook. The Committee of Ways and Means does not have to levy to meet the views of the Committee on Appropriations every Congress. The laws are in force constantly. constantly bringing money into the Treasury. So that objection is exploded. The other reason is that other committees cannot be trusted. they are not sufficiently economical. Now. air. it maybe that the Speaker in his wisdom in the appointment of the committees of this House during this Congress has selected for the Committee on Appropriations the most economical. the most wise. the most just. the most patriotic gentlemen in this House. But these rules are not for this House alone. they are. in defiance of constitutional authority. to go into other Congresses. they axe made the rules of succeeding Coimgresses. notwithstanding the Constitution says that every House shall make its own rules. They are to go forward in their operation and to be thrown over all future Congresses. It may be in some future Congress there shall be a Committee on Naval Affairs or a Committee on Military Affairs or a Committee on the PostOffice and PostRoads which will equal in virtue. in patriotism. in wisdom. and in love of economy the present Committee on Appropriations. I say nothing to the detriment of that committee. It is as good as any we have. But the argument is unfair and unjust. And why? It assumes to arraign all the other committees of this House for extravagance. for want of economy. for want of patriotism. and tries them before its own tribunal. No gentleman has a right to arraign another for any course he may pursue as a member of Congress. The constituent only has the right to call to account. I do not answer to any committee of this House. I do not answer even to my party in this House for what I do if I go beyond what they believe to be my duty. If I do not advocate and vote for measures they believe I ought to sustain and support. I am not fesponsible to them. my constituents only can call me to account. At that tribunal I bow and to that judgment I submit. But I do not bow to the selfassumed authority of any committee on this floor. It was argued that we will have less expenditure of moneythere will be less money expendedif you will put it in the hands of this committee. that somehow or othei. as soon as they are appointed. the Committee on Appropriations becomes supereminently economical. and less money will be expendetdby them. I do not know that that is so. I cannot say it will be wise to leave our harbors all dammed up. our commerce having no means of communication. I do not know that would be a part of great wisdom or statesmanship. I believe in liberal expenditures by the Government. If there is no other objection save that. I am sure the argument is not snstained that concentrates all the appropriations of this House into the hands of the Committee on Appropriations. But there are sometimes exceptions to that rule. I served once on the Committee on Naval Affairs. I remember we reported a bill to this House cutting down appropriations in the Navy Department below those which had been reported by the Committee on Appropriations. I have a very distinct recollection of being antagonized by the Committee on Appropriations and of being defeated. So it does not always follow the Committee on Appropriations are going to deal more economically with the public funds than any other committee of this House."
