speech_id|speech
960296177|Mr. Chairman. I have no further requests for time. Before I yield back the balance of my time. Mr. Chairman. I also want to join in paying tribute to the ranking minority member of the subcommittee. Dr. TIM LEE CARTER. for his contributions in this legislation. His contributions in this legislation. while important. are only one part of the overall contributions he has made to health care in this country and to the fabric of legislation that will long stand as a monument to him in contributing to the betterment of the people of this country.
960296178|Mr. Chairman. will the gentleman yield?
960296179|I yield to the gentleman from Utah.
960296180|I appreciate the gentleman yielding. I. too. may not have another chance to express my appreciation to Dr. CARTER. He and I have been longtime friends since I have been here. at least the last 4 years. I think he has made a tremendous contribution to this body. and I appreciate all he has done for both the Congress. this great country. and this legislation.
960296181|I appreciate the gentlemans comments and want to inform him he will have additional chances to comment on Dr. CARTERS leadership because we have a number of other bills yet coming from our subcommittee on which
960296182|clear imprint is present.
960296183|Mr. Chairman. will the gentleman yield?
960296184|I yield to my good friend. the ranking minority member of the subcommittee. Dr. CARTER.
960296185|I feel very humble. It has been a labor of love to have been a part of the legislation involving health over the past several years. It has been a pleasure to serve with you and with the Members of this House and to preserve the pure water system of the distinguished gentleman from San Antonio. I thank my good friend for yielding and for his kind remarks.
960296186|Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to support this bill which does a great deal toward helping some of the most vulnerable people in our society. The changes provided in this legislation originally came to the Subcommittee on Health and Environment from the Presidents Commission on Mental Health. That group. under the personal leadership of the First Lady. developed a series of recommendations for providing better mental health care to children. to the elderly. and to the chronically mental ill of the country. After much work by the subcommittee and by the full Commerce Committee. the bill now provides for continued support of the local community programs. for new programs to provide specialized help. and an increased role for State governments in planning these services. I am especially pleased that the bill contains a grant program devised by the subcommittee to aid children who are severely disturbed. We all know of the special tragedy of a young life which is disrupted bv mental illness and emotional problems. What few of us recognize is the inadequacy of the mental health system in treating those children. They are moved from hospital to hospital. from home to institution. with little specialized help. Families are without support to care for their young loved ones. Under H.R. 7299. the Federal Government will provide grants to develop programs and treatment for these children and their families. I am proud to support this provision to return these children to normal lives as they grow up. I want to commend the subcommittee chairman. Mr. WAXMAN. and the able ranking minority member. Dr. CARTER. for their work on this bill. It is a good piece of legislation. and I urge all the Members to support it.*
960296187|"Mr. Chairman. since my days in the Minnesota State Legislature. I have been a continuing supporter of the idea that patients suffering from mental disorders could be more effectively treated in their own community. as opposed to institutional settings. Since I came to Congress. I have had the opportunity to enthusiastically supoort several revisions of the original Community Mental Centers Act. which were aimed at expanding and improving deinstitutionalization programs. Although the original legislation. enacted in 1963. was intended to be a demonstration program. to offer formula grants to States to induce them to replace the traditional inadequate institutions with smaller. communitybased facilities. the scope of the program was broadened considerably in subsequent revisions of the act with Federal support to date. totaling some $2.287 billion over the past 13 years. The Community Mental Health Centers Act is a good program. Since its inception. Federal dollars have assisted in the creation of 763 community mental health centers which have made mental health services available to over 110 million people. Such services have been provided to rape victims. alcoholics. drug addicts. and include treating children and the elderly. The committee report states that ""Over 712 of the centers are fully operational and. in 1979. provided direct services to over 2.4 million persons."" It is my understanding that some 167 centers are now operating independently (without Federal support) and 325 centers no longer require basic operations support. More importantly. this Federal initiative has generated substantial State and local support. which together has resulted in a dramatic shift from inpatient to outpatient mental health care and a decrease of 36 percent in the number of psychiatric hospital beds in the United States today. Clearly. the program has been enormously successful and I have been privileged to support it. It is for this reason that I am so deeply disturbed by the cost of H.R. 7279. In spite of Congress failure to balance the fiscal year 1981 budget. and considering that even the most worthwhile programs are slated for severe budget cuts. I would have been pleased to support the $13 million increase for the Community Mental Health Centers Act which is included in the first part of H.R. 7299. However. H.R. 7299. goes far beyond a simple revision and extension of the Community Mental Health Centers Act. The second part of the bill totally overhauls the CMHC Act by creating a variety of new grant authorizations. many of which I strongly support. beginning in fiscal year 198284. But this section authorizes some $530 million over 3 years. bringing the increase to over 300 percent. That is more than our budget can stand. I do not question the value of these programs. My primary concern rests with asking the taxpayers to triple the authorization at a time when taxpayers are already paying some $80 billion in fiscal year 1981 for interest on Congress past sins for oversuendingthose past sins will accumulate to a grand total of close to $1 trillion in debt. It is not fair to dangle this $530 million authorization in a carrot like fashion. when in fact we are probably going to wind up asking our Appropriation Committee members to go slow when it comes to giving out the actual dollars. My constituents tell me that they would all benefit from improved mental health if Congress were ever to bring inflation under control. With great reluctance I shall vote for the Community Mental Health Centers Act. My vote is because it is a worthwhile program. My regret is because it does not need such an expensive authorization to carry on its successful work. I urge my colleagues to take a close look at our current economic picture as they vote on this measure.*"
960296188|Mr. Chairman. I rise in support of H.R. 7299. the Mental Health Systems Act. I am expecially pleased that title VI has been includedthe rape services support system. I know that my friend and colleague DoUG WALGREN worked hard in developing this title and every rape program and support group in the Eighth Congressional District of Virginia is appreciative. The rape crisis centers I have worked with in my district have continually contacted me about the need for legislation which would support direct victim services. Freeing staff from the timeconsuming activities of fundraising would allow staff to concentrate on finding longterm funding resources and would allow them to beef up victim services. The legislation we are considering here today authorizes the Secretary of HHS to award grants and contracts to public and nonprofit rape crisis centers to assist in meeting the costs of providing direct services to rape victims. Types of direct services include accompaniment of the victim to medical. social. and legal services. counseling and referral services to the victim and the victims immediate family. basic operating expenses. for example. telephone hotlines. office space. and utilities. consultation with allied professionals and public education materials and programs. Selfsufficiency of existing RCCs will be developed through the establishment of longterm public and private funding sources. The fragile financial conditions of many of the RCCs throughout the Eighth District and around the country result in periodic closings and handtomouth existence. We must pass H.R. 7299 today to alleviate these problems and assure that these needed support services will be available. It could easily be a member of one of our families who would need assistance from a rape crisis center.*
960296189|Mr. Chairman. I rise in support of H.R. 7299. I would. however. like to say that I am sorry that the House version of the Mental Health Systems Act does not contain a special section of grants for the elderly as does the Senate bill. S. 1177. that was passed by that body last month. The major aging organizations. the National Council of Senior Citizens. the National Retired Teachers Association/ American Association of Retired Persons. and the National Council on Aging. are all on record as supporting the aging section in the Senate bill. The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights and the Mental Health Association also support the Senate amendment. I believe that we need special grants for the elderly so that groups with interest. and knowledge can provide the unique support services and treatment required by this population. The Senate bill requires that public or nonprofit entities must provide outreach services and a differential diagnosis to distinguish between and establish the need for mental health services and other medical care prior to treatment. and at least one other service. The other services include identifying needs and providing services not being provided by existing programs. providing personnel for mental health and support services. coordinating services of other agencies. and providing services and training in nursing homes. It is my hope that we can incorporate these fine ideas in the final version of the bill.*
960296190|Pursuant to the rule. the Clerk will now read the bill by titles.
