speech_id|speech
1010118118|"Mr. President. shortly after the United States invaded Panama over a month ago. President Bush stated his Intention to lift the sanctions imposed against the corrupt. drugrunning regime of Manuel Noriega. Yet today they remain in place. While I have made clear my reservation about the United States invasion of Panama. I believe we have a deep responsibilityand that it is in our own fundamental interestto move as quickly as possible to restore economic and political stability in Panama. And yet. our sanctions remain In place while we debate the appropriate level and type of aid to the new Endara government. Today. I am introducing a Joint resolution that will immediately lift all current sanctions against Panama and I hope it will gain swift and unanimous passage. The United States should move quickly to implement a generous and welldesigned package of aid to repair the damage wrought by the Noriega regime and to reconstruct the Panamanian economy. The first step toward this endthe step that I am proposing we undertake immediatelyis to lift all sanctions imposed against Panama during the Noriega regime. It has been more than a month since the United States Invaded Panama and toppled its corrupt dictator. Yet a variety of sanctions still remain in place for no reason other than the slow pace of our bureaucracy. We must first lift these sanctions before we can begin to consider serious proposals to rejuvenate Panamas economy. The Endara government has requested emergency economic aid and negotiations to reduce trade barriers and the Bush administration is currently discussing this package with the Endara government and the Congress. I hope that a generous package will be agreed upon. It is important the assistance we ultimately offer be carefully designed to build a healthy and independent economy. Handouts wont work. The creation of Jobs will. Our assistance must be designed to put the Panamanian people to work. encourage United States investment. and increase trade between our nations. In the meantime we can move to help Panama begin to rebuild itself In a simply wayby lifting of sanctions immediately. The current legal requirements for the lifting of sanctions by the United States against Panama and other restrictions on United States assistance are complex and have already resulted in unnecessary delays of United States assistance to Panama. Right now there are emergency moneys and supplies that could be being used for the Panamanian people but for the existence of the sanctions. Time Is precious for people who have lost their Jobs and homes and there is no reason for them to wait any longer for the assistance they deserve. Accordingly. the bill I am submitting today removes these restrictions immediately without the need for complex and lengthy findings. First. the bill waives with respect to Panama for a period of 24 months that provision of the AntiDrug Abuse Act of 1986 regarding tariff treatment of products of uncooperative major drugproducing or drugtransit countries. Second. the bill waives with respect to Panama for a period of 24 months that provision of the AntiDrug Abuse Act of 1986 terminating the sugar quota for any country which has a government ""involved In the trade of illicit narcotics or is failing to cooperate with the United States in narcotics enforcement activities."" Third. the bill waives with respect to Panama for a period of 24 months the Brooke/Alexander amendment. which prohibits assistance to countries 6 months or more in arrears in payments to the United States. Fourth. the bill waives with respect to Panama for a period of 24 months those provisions of the International Narcotics Control Act prohibiting United States assistance to any country listed as ""major illicit drug producing country or drug transit country."" Last. the bill repeals those provisions of the Foreign Operations. Export Financing. and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1990 which directly restrict United States assistance to Panama including. for example. such assistance as Commodity Credit Corporation financing and ExportImporL Vcnk financing. If Congress will pass this bill it will save itself and the administration considerable time in making the findings necessary to lift the sanctions under current law. The prompt termination of sanctions against Panama and the waiver of restrictions on aid to Panama will advance Panamas political. economic. and democratic reforms. and in so doing fulfill our responsibility to and recement our friendship with this important Central American neighbor. United States interests are vast in Panama. We should lose no more time in moving swiftly to restore economic prosperity and stability to the Panamanian people who have suffered for so long. I urge my colleagues to join me in passing this resolution as soon as possible and help put Panama back on the road to prosperity in the postNorlega era."
1010118119|Mr. President. I would like to announce for the public that a hearing has been scheduled before the Subcommittee on Public Lands. National Parks and Forests of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. The hearing will be held on February 22. 1990. beginning at 2 p.m. The purpose of the hearing is to receive testimony on two measures currently pending in the subcommittee. The measures are: S. 1578. to provide for the creation of an independtnt Historic Preservation Agency and a National Center for Preservation Technology. and for other purposes. and S. 1579. to amend the National His. toric Preservation Act. the Historic Sites Act. the Archaeological Resources Protection Act. the Abandoned Shipwreck Act. and certain related acts to strengthen the preservation of our historic heritage and resources. and for other purposes. The hearing will be held in room SD366 of the Senate Dirksen Office Building in Washington. DC. Because of the limited time available for the hearing. witnesses may testify by invitation only. However. anyone wishing to submit written testimony to be included in the hearing record is welcome to do so. Those wishing to submit written testimony should send two copies to the Subcommittee on Public Lands. National Parks and Forests. SD364. Washington. DC 20510. For further information regarding the hearing. please contact Beth Norcross of the subcommittee staff at (202) 2247933.
1010118120|Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Governmental Affairs be authorized to meet on Wednesday. January 31. at 10:30 a.m.. for a hearing on the nomination of George W. Haley. to be Commissioner. Postal Rate Commission.
1010118121|Without objection. it is so ordered.
1010118122|Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Banking. Housing. and Urban Affairs be allowed to meet during the session of the Senate. Wednesday. January 31. 1990. at 10 a.m. to conduct oversight hearings on the Resolution Trust Corporation.
1010118123|Without objection. It is so ordered.
1010118124|Mr. President. I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Armed Services be authorized to meet in executive session on Wednesday. January 31. 1990. at 2 p.m.. to discuss the nomination of Victor Stello. Jr. to be the Assistant Secretary of Energy for Defense Programs.
1010118125|Without objection. it is so ordered.
1010118126|"Mr. President. I rise today to congratulate the Bureau of Land Managements Eastern States Office on its tremendous success in implementing a project to modernize the Federal lands and minerals records. Few people are aware of how many lands records. including patents and tract books. have accumulated since the beginning of westward expansion. Keeping track of land boundaries and ownership was essential to the development of this country. The Eastern States Office maintains these records and makes the information available to the public. Constant use of the books containing the land titles resulted in rapid deterioration of these valuable and historical records. In 1988. the Eastern States Office initiated a study to determine the best possible method for preserving the information for future generations. ""Preserving Americas Heritage"" is the records project which will enable the Bureau of Land Management to store information on discs. each of which will hold 36.000 patents. Information which at one time would take hours to retrieve will be immediately accessible once the records conversion project !s complete. As chairman of the Public Lands Subcommittee. 1 am particularly interested in maintaining the original patents and title documents of historical land exchanges. Access to these historic records is needed to determine the Federal Governments claim to lands and minerals. I am pleased to report that Arkansas land records are being used for the prototype in this project. In a matter of weeks. 323 volumes of Arkansas patents163.000 documentswill be fully automated. I congratulate Curt Jones and his staff on their fine work. Not only is this new system saving valuable time and money. it is also preserving our past. Future use of the automation system will provide efficient and equitable management of our public lands.e"
1010118127|Mr. President. dramatic and historic changes in United States refugee policies concerning Soviet refugees greeted fiscal year 1990. This is the year the doors to Soviet emigration opened and the doors to the United States closed. When the administration r inounced the new U.S. refugee policies on September 18. Congress had only 15 days notice of the very serious changes in our refugee policies. There were* a myriad of unanswered questions and unaddressed issues. and still today the same questions remain unanswered and issues unaddressed. Therefore. in conjunction with the Union of Councils for Soviet Jews. I have established the Moscow monitor project wherein the preeminent Soviet refusnik. Leonid Stonov. will provide firsthand information on the workings and effects of the new policies. Since our first contact in midDecember. Mr. Stonov has informed me of very serious problems concerning Moscow processing. In response to these contacts. I have forwarded a letter to Counsel General Max Robinson. of the American Embassy in Moscow. which discusses these problems. I would like to thank my colleagues who have already expressed interest in this project and again invite further participation. It is my hope that with our continued vigilance. these problems will be addressed and freedom will speedily arrive for those still trapped in the Soviet Union. I ask that the letter I referred to be printed in the RECORD. The letter follows:
1010118128|"Mr. President. recently the Eastern States Office of the Bureau of Land Management at the Department of the Interior unveiled its new land records automation project. This project. entitled ""Preserving Americas Heritage."" marks the beginning of the automation of almost 9 million Federal land conveyance documents maintained by the Eastern States Officethe largest land title office in the world. I am proud that the land records of my State were selected for the prototype for this project. Former Arkansas Land Commissioner Bill McCuen. now our secretary of state. as well a. our current commissioner of lands. Charlie Daniels. were actively involved in this project from the outset. The land title records housed at the Eastern States Office in some 10.000 huge books have been extensively utilized over the years by Federal and State agencies. title insurance companies. industry. and by citizens tracing their genealogies. These books. many of them years old. have been literally loved to death. Automation will both preserve these important documents and make them even more readily available for use. Mr. President. not only am I proud of the fact that my State was chosen to be the ""pioneer"" in this effort. but I am also proud of the work of scores of dedicated Federal employees at the Eastern States Office. as well as the January .3.1. 1990 Office of Scientific and Technical Information at the Department of Energy who have lent their expertise to the project. Recipient of one of only 15 awards given in June 1989 by the Presidents Council on Management Improvement. the Eastern States Office is evidence of the caliber of individual that Federal service continues to draw today. As chairman of the Senate Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Federal Services. Post Office and Civil Service. I am daily apprised of performance throughout the Federal Government workplace. The Interior Department can be especially proud of this team of Federal employees. I know Arkansas is now the envy of other States who wish to have their land recordssuch an integral part of our heritageautomated for future use. Let me assure my colleagues that they could ask for no better group than Kurt Jones and the Easter States Office to undertake this important mission.*"
