speech_id|speech
860272149|"Mr. Speaker. I spoke on Monday of the tremendously spectacular fire that took place just two buildings from my office in Lowell. Mass. I spoke of the heroism of the chief of the fire department. Mr. Fracis Kelleher. who directed the firefighting. In the beginning the fire was completely out of hand. It was a roaring. raging fire. It did not seem possible that anyone could survive. The picture which I have in my hand shows the fire when it was raging at its worst. but the firemen. with the help of other cooperating firemen from other towns in my district got it under control and eventually put it out. They performed herculean service. I spoke of certain persons the other day who showed great heroism ard great executive ability. I would like to speak again of the head of the fire department at Lowell. who directed all the firefighting activities. and of the firefighters from other towns in my district and from the U.S. Air Force firefighters from Bedford in my district who volunteered their services. I would like to speak also of the action by the police department in Lowell that worked tirelessly. getting people out of the way who had been overcome by the fire. by the fumes. by the smoke. And I would like to tell the people here that nobody was seriously injured and nobody was killed. It is almost beyond belief that that could have happened in such a raging fire. It was a miracle. But the firemen put a moat of water around the building. I would like to speak of the very great and efficient action of our postmaster at Lowell. Mr. James Gallagher. who sent away his disabled veterans who worked there. those who had any difficulty with their lungs. Then he put one of the post office custodians. Mr. Kenneth Earle. and Arthur Garrabedian on the roof with hose and fireprotection apparatus. Nothing happened to the post office building. That would have gone also if it had not been that they had got the fire under control or if the wind had changed. Then there was the auditorium beyond. the Lowell Auditorium. That would have gone. too. if they had not had the fire under control. I am so sincerely grateful to the Lowell people for their wonderful selfsacrifice and their real heroism and for the way in which they adjusted themselves to the demands of this terribly spectacular fire. The Lowell Sun Newspaper Building where I have my office. was so very near the fire and the people in it. like the owners. Mr. John and Mr. Clement Costello. behaved remarkably when they had burning sticks coming over on their window ledges. But still they kept the fire away. and remained calm. I have such pride. Mr. Speaker. In my Lowell people. I wish you all knew them. They are modest and great Americans. Colorful ""First"" for Greater Portland"
860272150|"Mr. Speaker. on July 1 of this year. there appeared in the Portland. Maine. Press Herald an article describing a picturesque and colorful telephone book cover. depicting many aspects of Maines economy. The occasion for this ""first"" in the area served by the New England Telephone & Telegraph Co. is the 200th anniversary of Cumberland County. I commend the progressive officials of the phone company for this excellent example of participation in the ceremony of the area they represent. The article follows:"
860272151|Mr. Speaker. H.R. 1157. the Price bill. a bill to assist in the economic development of the Ryukyu Islands. is now the law of the land. The author of this bill is the most distin.uished Congressman from the State of Illinois. the Honorable MELVIN PRICE. Many Members of this body have had the opportunity of visiting the Ryukyu Islands in the recent years. I am most certain that all of such Members will agree that of all the legislation relating to the Ryukyus that we have con3idered in the body. the Price bill has lenerated the greatest interest and concern among the Ryukyuans. The news f the enactment of the Price bill has Deen received in the Ryukyus with great joy and favor. The Price bill will undoubtedly foster better and friendlier AmericanRyukyuan relationship. The Congress of the United States owes a gTeat debt of gratitude to the Honorable MELVIN PRICE for his deep understanding of and the forward looking approach to the problems of the Ryukyuans. Recently. the gentleman from Illinois received two telegrams from the Ryukyus. One. from the Honorable Seisaku Ota. the chief executive of the government of the Ryukyu Islands. and the other from General Booth. U.S. High Commissioner. These telegrams very clearly express the great gratitude of the Ryukyuans. I am taking leave to insert these two telegrams into the RECORD for consideration by the Members of this body. The telegram to Congressman PRICE from the High Commissioner. General Booth. follows: Deeply appreciate your sustained interest in the Ryukyu Islands. Passage of the Price bill is being interpreted locally as a reflection of your personal interest in the welfare and wellbeing of the Ryukyuan people and this strengthens the relationships between the United States and the Ryukyus. I have transmitted your message to the Chief Executive and he has asked me to express his gratitude. You will be hearing soon from him personally. Subsequently. Congressman PRICE received the following message from the chief executive. Seisako Ota: We are highly gratified that H.R. 1157 was finally approved by the Congress. thanks to your continued efforts. This legislation is sure to promote greatly economic and social development of the Ryukyus. Your accomplishments for the Ryukyus Islands will long live in the mind of the Ryukyuan people. On behalf of all the Ryukyuan people I hereby express our hearty gratitude for your distinguished services. Problems of Safety in the Electric Utility Industry
860272152|Mr. Speaker. the matter of industrial safety is one which affects the livelihood. wellbeing and happiness of most American families. It is a matter to which this Congress has directed considerable attention in the past and it is a matter which requires our continued concern and consideration. Nothing could be more clear than that safety standards and regulations which may be adequate today will be rendered obsolete by the technology of tomorrow. Mr. Speaker. this is particularly true in the electric utility field. The responsibility for safety in this area is extraordinary in that accident hazard is inherent in the duties and service performed by utility workers. An employee of an electric utility company must be concerned not only for his own life. but for the safety of his coworkers and the general public as well. Making this triple responsibility even more demanding is the serious handicap under which the utility worker must perform his work as a result of inadequate safety measures and out dated safety equipment. In the electric utility industry. it is essential that limitations be placed on the number of consecutive hours worked. that certain procedures be established and followed in deenergizing electrical conductors or equipment for maintenance purposes. and that safety requirements be established for work within contact distance or for equipment energized at a high voltage. This giant industry. while striving to satisfy the increasing demands of its consumers by expanding the systems of distribution and modernizing the techniques of generating power. has failed for budgetary or other reasons to demonstrate a proportionate concern for the safety of its employees. Thus. voltage limitations are designed for the lower primary voltages of a bygone era and enclosures of modern high speed generators and turbines do not provide adequate protection from moving parts. The neglect of the electric utility industry in this area becomes clear from a study of safety recordswhich. when available. are far from complete. For example. the Accident Prevention Committee of the Edison Electric Institute published a summary report of fatalities which listed 136 fatalities for 1955. This figure. while alarmingly high. includes only members of the Edison Electric Institute. What about the fatalities of the nonmembersindependents. municipalities. REA and other cooperatives? Figures for these utility companies are not readily available but one can easily imagine the impact their statistics would have on the overall picture. The number of fatal injuries reflects only a part of the disturbing accident figures. Included in this grim picture must be the accidents which leave victims either totally or partially disabled. In 1958. 7.1 percent of the disabling injuries in the private electric light and power utility industry resulted in permanent impairment. This was a higher permanent impairment ratio than occurred in any other section of the transportation and public utility industry. the contract construction industry and. with few exceptions. the mining industry. The average time length of disability per injury was 226 days. In my opinion. the accident rate itself is compelling reason for consideration of legislation to establish a uniform code of safety regulations for the electric utility industry. But the tragic accident record has equally discouraging collateral aspects which must also be considered. Economic loss to the worker. his family. the company and the coinmunity is staggering. The accident record of one Ohio companythe Columbus & Southern Ohio Electric Coaffords an example of how great this wagetime loss is in terms of lost purchasing power and diminished consumer demand. Statistics for the Columbus district for 1955 show a loss of 6.263 days. based on an average hourly wage rate of $2.09. amounting to a total wage loss to injured A5 9 employees of $104.717.36. In 1956. the Nvage loss rose to $153.410.32 when Injured employees lost 8.837 workdays. Again. these are only one companys fioures. And. of course. there are no Statistics. figures. reports or records by v hich we can measure the discomfort and insecurity of a worker and his family during the days lost. nor is there any way to ease the pain when a family loses il.. breadwinner completely. Several recommendations have been put forth for remedial legislation by Congress which would improve safety requirements and conditions in the utility industry. At this point. it might be well to recall that it was not too many years ago that mine workers were urgently pleading for better safety regulations and that the 77th Congress saw fit to enact legislation resulting in vastly improved working conditions. As a first step. uniform minimum safety standards should be established. The present safety record and the miserable failure of many companies to follow adequate safety procedures are evidence enough of the need for industrywide safety regulations. Such regulations could be either statutory requirements or regulations prescribed by a Government agency. The statutory requirements might be used for certain basic rules. such as limitation on the number of consecutive hours worked. materials used for protection of wires. and so forth. but the establishment of a safety agency would appear to offer several advantages. Such an agency. composed of persons familiar with the field - of industrial safety and in particular with the problems of the electric utility industry would be competent to establish effective safety regulations and because of its continuing responsibility in the field would be able to modify and streamline safety requirements to keep Dace with technical innovations. Closely related to the establishment of a code of minimum safety regulations is the necessity for adequate inspection. Inspection of safety equipment to determine whether it meets standards established by the safety agency. and appropriate approval stamps issued to the equipment manufacturer should be required. Inspections should be made of electric utility plants to determine existence and degree of danger. In cases of immediate hazard the agency should be empowered to order the removal of workers from the area as well as require corrective action. Inspection would be an essential tool in the enforcement of minimum safety regulations. Accident reporting would be a third arm of the projected safety program for electric utility industry. Included within the statutory framework of the safety agency should be authority to require that all accidents be immediately reported and a uniform method of accident recording should be established for this purpose. Although most States require a report of accidents and fatalities. the time lapse between occurrence of the accident and filing of the report varies with each jurisdiction. In addition. the accident records of the State utility commissions are often incomplete and not readily available. The effectiveness of any safety program depends in large measure upon the expertness with which accident and other investigations are conducted. Far too many accidents are now attributed simply to that nebulous causehuman error. The challenge is to determine what factors cause or contribute to this human error and to define areas of accident potential. Investigation of every fatal mishap and spot checks of other less serious accidents by trained personnel are needed to track down accident causes and furnish vital accident prevention information. These. then. are a few of the possible approaches to improving the safety record of electric utility companies. Perhaps the most serious problem in initiating a safety program is to determine just where the responsibility lies. Voluntary action by individual companies has. to date. been inadequate and unsatisfactory. Employeecompany safety committees are desirable but hardly the answer to a nationwide problem. It would appear. therefore. that the existing accident record in the electric utility industry calls for responsible Government action. In the absence of an effective industry program. it is only at the Government level that safety standards can be instituted and enforced. Creation of a new Government regulatory agency or additional authority delegated to an existing agency is necessary for the performance of the functions which I have suggested. Provision could thus be made for both a safety agency and for a board of review to be staffed by company and worker representatives. There is ample precedent for authority to regulate within the utility industry. The Federal Coal Mine Inspection Act of 1941 and the 1952 Federal Coal Mine Safety Act are similar legislative actions which have been taken in another industry. Although the electric utility worker is not faced with the kind of accident that reach the catastrophic proportions of the major mine disasters. the overall record of deaths and disabling accidents is great enough to warrant consideration of the advisability of legislation in this important field. Senator Kennedy and Civil Rights
860272153|"Mr. Speaker. I am pleased to insert in the RECORD an excellent editorial from the June 29. 1960. issue of the La Porte (Ind.) HeraldArgus. a firstclass newspaper published in my district. concerning the views of the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts. the Honorable JOHN F. KENNEDY. on the important issue of civil rights. As the La Porte HeraldArgus says. Senator KENNEDYS recent speech In Washington in the presence of African diplomats ""added to his stature as a politician who speaks out bluntly and courageously on basic principles to which he adheres."" The editorial follows:"
860272154|Mr. Speaker. under unanimous consent to insert my remarks in the Appendix of the RECORD. I Would include a timely and important editorial viewpoint by Mr. George Todt: columnist A5S70 J1 ly 5 or the Valley Times. published in North Hollywood. Calif.. and circulated in my listrict. The U2 incident has been viciously ittacked by the press. Here is a newspapermans refreshing view:
860272155|Mr. Speaker. I wish to draw the attention of this body to a most timely and significant address prepared for delivery by my predecessor in the House. Senator KENxEvI B. KEATING before the New York State Convention of the ItalianAmerican War Veterans. at Rochester. N.Y.. on June 18. Senator KEATING was unable to attend this convention in person. because of the extended sessions of the Senate. In his absence. the Senators speech was read by Judge John J. Lomenzo. an eminent Rochester jurist who has long been an outstanding leader in the ItalianAmerican Veterans organization. The theme of Senator KEATINGS address is the need for the coordinated defense of the free world in the face of the massive and singleminded Communist plan of global conquest. Mr. Speaker. under leave previously granted. I ask that this address by Senator KEATING be printed in the Appendix of the RECORD.
