speech_id|speech
460098655|Take the other alternative.
460098656|I will take all the alternatives. yes. sir. some probably. before we get through this matter. which the gentleman will not like very much.
460098657|All right. bring them out.
460098658|Stch logic is too absurd for serious consideration. Its use today forms but another chapter in the partisan purposes and conduct of that gentleman. He has now learned. if he did not know it before. that when attacks are made they will be repelled. He has nowlearned. if he did not know it before. that there is as much truth as poetry in the lines of one of Englands immortal bards: And if we do but watch the hour. There never yet was human power Which could evade. if nnforgiven. The patient search and vigil long Of him who treasures up a wrong.
460098659|There is nothing to which I desire to reply. and I will not ask the indulgence of the House for any remarks. but will leave the country to construe the speech as it should be construed. In pursuance of the promise which I made to the House. I will move the reference of the document from the State Departnent. to which I referred. to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. and ask that it be printed.
460098660|I move to dispense with the morning hour. with a view of going on with the consideration of the pending appropriation bill in the Committee of the Whole. I make this motion because the chairman of the Committee on Appropriations is out of the Hall. but I understand that he will be here in a moment.
460098661|I move that the House now resolve itself into Committee of the Whole for the purpose of proceeding with the consideration of the legislative. executive. and judicial appropriation bill.
460098662|The gentleman from North Carolina is entitled to the floor.
460098663|I do not know any branch of the public service that needs examination more than this of the internal revenue. Its administration in some sections of the country has been fraught with fraud and corruption. It has been used in a large degree for political purposes. During the period when gentlemen on the other side of the House controlled the appropriations of this country. I do not hesitate to say that the expenditures of collecting the internal revenue. and the amount collected. show that there must have been something more than the mere ordinary administration of that department of the Government. in the interest of the public. I have compiled from official sources since this debate began a statement which will show facts utterly inconsistent with afair and impartial administration of this department of the Goversiment. The following is a comparison of the expenditures of public money on account of civil and miscellaneous appropriations during the prosidentialelection years of 186465.186SV69. and 1872-)73. and the years next prior and next subsequent to each of said election years. showing invariably an increase of expenditures in each fiscal year of the presidential election over the years immediately prior thereto and over the years immediately subsequent thereto: Fiscal year 186364 (before election year) ............................. 27. 572.216 Fiscal year 186465 election year) .................................... 42.989.383 Fiscal year 1865- 66 (after election year) ............................. 40 613.114 Fiscal year 186768 (before election year) ............................. 53. 010.00 Fiscal year 186869 (election year) .................................... 56.474. 00 Fiscal year 186970 (after election year .............................. 53.237 . 000 Fiscal year 187172 (before election year) ............................ 60. 481.757 Fiscal year 187273 (election year) .................................... 73.328.110 Fiscal year 187374 (after election year) .............................. 9641.593 Thus showing increased expenses in the election year of 186465 over 1863164. of $15.417.167 . in election year of 186869 over 186768. of $3.464.000 . in election year of 1872173 over 187172. of $12.343.358. in election year of 186465 over 186667. of $2.376.269. in election year of 186869 over 1869170. of $3.273.000. in election year of 187273 over 187374. of $3.686.517. A reference to the amounts of internal revenue collected during the presidential years as compared with the amounts collected in the fiscal years preceding and following will show that the amount collected during the presidential years was less by millions than the amount collected in the years preceding and following. Internal revenue collected for fiscalyear 186768. (before election.) $191.087.589. year 186869. (presidential year.) $158.356.460. year 1869J70. (after election.) $184.899.756. thus showing that the amount collected during the presidential year was $32.731.129 less than the year before. and $26.543.296 less than the year following the election. The amount collected during the fiscal year of 187172. prior to the election. was $130.642.177. and the amount collected during the presidential year of 187273. was $113.729.314. thus showing that the amount collected during the presidential year was $16.912.863 less than the year before. Now. why was this? Was it the result of any accident? No. sir. it was because these officials in many States of the Union were engaged in using their positions for political purposes. I think the facts will show that this must have been the reason. For instance. why should the civil and miscellaneous expenses of the Government. which includes the collection of internal revenue. cost millions more the year of a presidential election than for the year before or the year following? And why should the amount of revenue collected during the presidential years be less by millions than during the yeard before or the years after? A great deal has been said about gentlemen on this side of the House being sensitive on this subject. and it is alleged that it is because their constituents had been engaged in violating the revenue laws. No one on this side approves violations of the law. but the remedy is not in spies and detectives. We have had some of these detectives in my State. and though they were employed nominally to detect crime. they were oftentimes the greatest. and sometimes the only. criminals connected with the matters which it was said they were employed to expose. And on their testimony men have been bound over to the Federal court on false or frivolous charges. and on the hearing. the judge has instructed the grand jury not to find bills. of indictment on the testimony of those men. Whenever the Government fnds it necessary in the execution of its laws to employ men of bad character. to employ knaves as many of these ihen unquestionably are. it is time that we should try and see where the evil is. We shall find it in the bad administration of unjust and unequal laws. which do not command the approval of publhe sentiment. Whenever it becomes necessary to enforce the civil law through the medium of spies and detectives. then. I say. you may bid farewell to the freedom of this country. and this Republic will go down as other republics before it have gone. into despotism. through corruption. [Here the hammer fell.)
460098664|"Mr. Chairman. the mournful view which the gentleman from North Carolina takes of the future of this country would becalculated perhaps to create alarm if it came from some other direction than the old ""tarheel State."" All I desire to say in reference to the charge made here that the money of this country during the years indicated by him has been diverted from the legitimate purposes for which it was appropriated to political purposes is simply this: the gentleman deserves a patent for diseov4 .ring fifteen years after the fact what eightyfour democratic smelling committees of this House have hitherto failed to discover. With this statement I do not desire to say anything further on that point. Mr. Chairman. whenever the question of the honest enforcement of the revenue laws in reference to whisky comes up a raid is always made by sympathizers with moonshiners and evaders of the revenue law upon that law for the purpose of striking down its honest and efficient administration. In reference to this item. Mr. Chairman. the sum of $75.000 is the amount appropriated last year. One hundred thousand dollars was recommended as the appropriation for the present year by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. who assured our committee that it was important he should have this amount instead of $75.000 as named in the bill. or $50.000 as proposed in the amendment of the gentleman from Mississippl. For one. I feel that if there is a desire on the part of this House to-"
460098665|I am very much obliged to my friend from Kentucky.
460098666|I rise to a parliamentary inquiry. Is not debate exhausted on this amendment?
460098667|Debate is exhausted.
460098668|I object to farther debate.
460098669|I move to amend the amendment by striking out the last word.
460098670|The gentleman from North Carolina will proceed.
460098671|"The gentleman from Indiana [Mr. Bxut] says that according to his observation the amount of this appropriation might be much larger. I have no doubt that a much larger sum might be spent. it might be run up to $100.000 or to $1.000.000. or to $10.000.000. But that is not the question. This is a proposition to pay detectives and informers. If the grand juries and the ordinary lawofficers of the country are not sufficient to point out offenders and bring violators of the law to justice. I say for one. never by my vote shall one dollar be paid to a detective or an informer. It is o~ly to the portion relating to detectives and informers that my remarks apply. Mr. Chairman. there has been nothing more corrupting. nothing more demoralizing. nothing that has gone deeper in sapping and undermining the foundations of this Government. than this System of internal revenue. The great thieves go unwhipped of justice. but a little offender in some mountain gorge is seized and carried off to Albany or some of or prison. while large thieves. not only in matters of revenue. but o . other things. gm. free. Over here in the State of Pcnnsylvania suume of the gentimnans political friends have been gailtyof what? They have been charged with corruptly soliciting the votes of legislators to procure the passage of a bill appropriating $4.000.000 for property destroyed by the Pittsburgh rioters. claims which. by the way. were settled afterward at one million and a half oi dollars or thereabout. These men. after being convicted or pleading guilty. and after being sentenced to the penitentiary. were pardoned by the governor upon the recommendation of the board of pardons of that State. and it is said publicly in the papers that this was because they said to leading men of their party. ""Unless you let us out. many of you must come in."" All I have to say is. that if ourfriends on the other side desire to bring criminals to jdstice let them begin high. Let them begin with those who were pardoned ont of the penitentiary after being convicted of frands on the revenue at Saint Louis. One or two of these big thieves will defraud the Goverument out of more money in one month than all the blockaders in North Carolina together in one year. but these men can contribute to the party fund and that secures immunity. Such eminent republican politicians as W. H. Kemble. lately a membr of the national republican committee for the State of PemisylVuia. who has made memorable that motto of political thieves. ""addition. division. and silence."" with his associates. Petroff. Rumberger. Salter. and Crawford. can. when convicted of the greatest crimescrimes which strike at the foundation of our Governmentdud no trouble in keeping out of the penitentiary. because they have money .with which to help the party. and because. as it is publicly alleged in the press of the country. they know the secrets of their political asso elates. who dare not permit them to go to the penitentiary. When our friends on the other side speak of the thousands of moonshiners and violators of the law in a few States of this Union. they should remember that the frauds in Saint Louis alone exceeded in amount in one year all those perpetrated by all the moonshiners together. Let them condemn these eminent violators of the law. I will vote all the money necessary for the courta. the juries. and all public officers in the administration of the laws. but I will never vote one dollar to pay spies and detectives. instruments unknown in the civil administration of our fathers. names in many instances synonyms for thieves and knaves. (Here the hammer fell.]"
460098672|"Mr. Chairman. I regret that any partisan remarks have been made on this appropriation bill. I do not think that an appropriation bill is the proper place to arouse political prejudice. I think we should discuss this bill in regard to its business merits and in regard to what is absolutely necessary to enforce the laws which are on the statutebooks. Now. sir. if the InternalRevenue Bureau has been guilty of malpracticeand I am not prepared to say it has not. nor am I its special defender. but if it has been guilty of malpractice there is a way of reaching it. and it should be reached. If the head of that bureau has used the public funds for the purpose of oppressing one portion of the people. or indeed any single individual. wrongfully. there is a way to reachthat officer. and it should be done. but it should not be done at the sacrifice of the collection of the revenues of the country. Whether wisely or unwisely. Mr. Chairman. laws have been enacted levying a tax on whisky. and on manufactured tobacco. and upon other articles. It is necessary to enforce those laws. and ever since their existence this very clause in this appropriation bill has been enacted. A certain sum of money has been appropriated annually for the purpose of detecting violators of the internalrevenue laws. It has been applied to that particular purpose. The question is. will gentlemen who are opposed to this section or this paragraph in the bill take the ground that no appropriation at all should be made for that purpose? If I understand the purport of the argument of the gentleman from North Carolina it goes to the effect of wiping out the entire appropriation. We appropriated last year the very selfsame. identical amount we propose to appropriate this year. and for the same identical object. There is not the crossing of a t or the dotting of an ia difference in the object or the amount of last years appropriation and that proposed by this bill. Then. if we intend to execute the laws. the maeans ought to be given to the officers of the country to do so. If the laws are wrong. repeal them. If the judgment of the House is prepared to say that the laws are wrong. they should provide for their repeal. . I am not for one prepared to say that I advocate the present system of taxation. for I do not. but it is not proper on an appropriation bill to attempt to change those laws. If you withhold the necessary means for the enforcement of those laws in the passing of your appropriation bills. you have effectually nullified those laws. That is the whole of it. so far as that is concerned. and gentlemen cannot escape the proposition. But. Mr. Chairman. there has been in the last nine months over $10.684.000 of internal revenue collected more than for the nine corresponding months of the last fiscal year. I want to say that there have been in certain districts where illicit distilling has prevailed to the greatest extent during the last two years by the encouragement given by the Internal Revenue Bureau two hundred and seventytwo new registered distilleries. There i:re today three times as many registered distilleries in these same .l istricts as there w.-re two years ago. That has been brought about by suppressing illuit distilling. I do not suppose there is a gentleman on this floor who is prepared to sayhe desires to promote by any act orword of his illicit distilling. I know that no member professes to do any such thing. but I want to say if- insufficient appropriations are made to protect the internalrevenue laws. there is injustice done to the registered and legal distilleries of the country. Shall we by any action of ours so promote illicit distilling as to break down thereby the legal distilleries of the country and defraud the Government of its legitimate revenues? Those are the questions to which gentlemen of the House should address themselves. The Government was defrauded in 1876 of over $4.000.000 of revenue by illicit distillers. I say that the gentleman from Mississippi himself. who. I believe. has made two or three speeches on this proposition. concedes the language he proposes to strike out is mere surplusage. If. then. it is mere surpiusage. there is no principle involved in it. That is what the gentleman concedes. and I repeat and reiterate what he has said. that the language he proposes to strike out is mere surplusage. In the first part of the paragraph it provides for ""detecting and bringing to trial."" Afterward the language ""including payment for detection and information"" is a mere repetition. [Hre the hammer fell.]"
460098673|took the floor.
460098674|Is not the debate exhausted?
460098675|Debate is exhausted on the formal amendment.
460098676|The gentleman withdraws it. and I renewit.
460098677|I object to its withdrawal.
460098678|The question. then. will have to be taken on the amendment.
460098679|What has become of the amendment of the gentleman from Mississippi?
460098680|It is still pending. The question now is on the amendment to that amendment. The amendment to the amendment was rejected.
460098681|"I move to strike out the last two words. I favor the amendment of the gentleman from Mississippi. It is not my purpose by anything lbat I may say or do to cripple the force and effect of the revenue laws or to retard their execution. I do wish. however. to see those laws executed in the proper manner and through the proper instrumentalities. It is a question of economy as well as of justice that we have here to consider. ought we to appropriate such a large sum of money as that here designated for the purpose and business or which it is asked ? If my memory serves me some three years ago when the revenue laws and regulations bad not arrived at that degree of perfection which is now claimed for them about $50.000 was voted for the purposes for which we are asked to appropriate $75.000. The firstnamed sum I doubt not was considered sufficient then to conduct this branch of the public business. It was only. if I am correct in my recollection. as far back as 1878 that we find the amount increased to $75. 00. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue claims that he has so perfecoed the law. that he has brought his regulations so well to bear upon revenue subjects and the business of his department. that everything goes along smoothly and well. that he loses less and collects more revenue than was ever collected before. and that almost everything moves on with reasonable accuracy and precision in his department. What need. therefore. for this large appropriation? I think that the appropriation of $75.000""for the support and encouragement of detectives and informers is unnecessary and improper. We are called upon to follow the bad precedent established two or three years ago. If we cannot omit the appropriation I would wish to see it reduced. It is contrary to the spirit and genius of our institutions to maintain a horde of spies and informers whose vocation it is to dog the footsteps and pry into the business of the citizen. It adds nothing to the dignity of our Government or the character of our institutions to maintain at the public expense a large number of detectives. many of whom experience has shown provoke. if they do not invite. violations of the law. The evil should be checked. if we cannot care it. But the gentleman from Tennessee was correct when he said the great defect was in the revenue laws. The trouble was and is in the law. It lies deeper than anything we have presented here. The trouble. the great trouble. consists in the weight of the revenue tax upon liquors and other subjects. If the rate of taxation was reduced we would have no need of an army of spies and informers. The people won1tpay the reduced tax more cheerfully. production would be encouraged. the incentive to fraud would be greatly lessened. and the result would be an increase of revenue to the Government. If you will look back a few months you will find that when we had under consideration the proposition to reduce the tobacco tax. it was claimed on the part of the Treasury Department that such action would decrease the revenue by nine or ten millions of dollars. Yet when we reduced the tax to the extent of eight cents per pound. onethird of the old rate. the result was. there was not only no loss of revenue to the Government. but. as I am informed. an actual gain. I have not the figures at my command just now. but I am informed. and gentlemen around remind me that so far from working a diminution of receipts the reduction of the tax has induced an increase of revenue to the extent of a million dollars or more in excess of that obtained under the old law."
460098682|If the gentleman will allow me to interrupt him. the increase has been largely in excess. as shown by the morning papers.
460098683|I have no doubt of it. and if that is a fact. if it be true. as I believe it is. that an increase of revenue has followed the reduction of the tax upon tobacco. why should the same effects not follow in regard to spirits I The same results will follow. Mr. Chairman. if the tax upon distilled spirits should be wisely reduced. The tax bears so heavily upon poor men and men of moderate means that they cannot engage in the business. just as was the case with tobacco. and the whole field is left to men of wealth or fraudulent methods. Reduce the tax and give all persons a fair and equal chance. reduce the tax and lessen the efforts to avoid its payment. Do this and the Government will get what belongs to it without the aid of so many paid employs enforcing their doubtful system of coercion. [Here the hammer fell.]
460098684|"Mr. Chairman. it seems to me that it is in vain for gentlemen to attempt to cover up the issue which is before us. This is a question whether we will enforce our laws and collect the revenues as heretofore. and nothing else. One gentleman on the other side of the House has declared that this can be done without officers. and that it can be done by public sentiment ! On the 10th day of February a member from Georgia introduced into this House a resolution calling for facts connected with this subject. Since that resolntion has been answered I have heard no alluion to it by gentlemen on the other side. That statement of facts shows that during the last throe and a half years. in a few Southern States of this country. three thousand and fortythree illicit stills hays been discovered and sixty.one hundred and liftythree criminals ot persons accused of crimes against the revenue haVe been arrested. Now. if that is the state of public sentiment in that part of the conntry. and it allows such an enormous number of illicit stills and encotirages such an enormous numbcr of perpetrators of crime. I wonder how much we are going to be benefited by such a condition of "" public sentiment."" But that exhibit is the least alarming feature. One would suppose that with such an exhibit as that staring them in the face the Representatives of such respectable communities on this floor would hang their beads in shame. but instead of that they come here and actually force the fighting! They actually come hero and endeavor to force a reducetion of appropriations to detect crime. these men who represent such districts! They undertake to assail the officers of the law and prevent them from getting their pay for enforcing the statutes of the United States in relation to the collection of the revenues I For my own part I want the country and I want the louse to enderstand who is doing it. I want the country to take note of the men who present this thing and press it for consideration in this House. This rigorous enforcement of the law that gentlemen are so auxidus to have mitigated has shown itself in the largely increased revenues of the comntry. Three years ago. for the drst six months of the year the amount of revene collected was only $442.562.64 . for the first six months of the current fiscal year the amount collected is over $806.550.32. This report shows clearly what has been accomplished by a rigorous and exact enforcement of the law. But this has been achieved by no harsh and unrelenting treatment of men detected violating the law. On the contrary. on one page of the report you will find that twentyfive hundred and six of the individuals who have been arrested for that crime have been amuestied by the Government. and this notwithstanding twentyfive men have been killed and fortynine men have been woundedall officers in the performance of their dity. and notwithstanding one hundred and twentyfive of these officers have been arrested by the State authorities because they were doing their duty. while only one man has been prosecuted for these murders and woundings. If that is the kind of public sentiment that is to enforce this law. I think we ought to increase the appropriation instead of diminishing it."
460098685|"It has been said by the gentleman from Tennessee. who has this bill in charge. that the motion I have made does not amount to anything. that the language which I propose to strike out is simply surplusage. I did say. Mr. Chairman. that the language in the bill which I propose to strike out. ""including payments for information and detection."" was surplitsage. because in the first line of the paragraph there are the words ""for dotecting."" But the surplusage is not only in the language of the bill reported by the gentleman from Tennessee. but it is in the appropriation which the gentleman proposes to make. It was stated by my friend from Virginia that it was only in 1878 this amount had been increased. In a year or two more you will probably be applied to by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. if we have the same experience in the future as we nave had in the past. to appropriate $100.000 for this purpose. and so on and on it will increase. I have said the language of the bill is surplusage in that particular since the paragraph already appropriates for detecting persons guilty of violating the internal- revenue laws. But the gentleman from Maine undertakes to say that there have been so many persons prosecuted under the law. that therefore it is necessary to make this appropriation. Why. sir. no one wants to prevent prosecutions for illicit distilling. Nobody proposes to strike out that feature of the bill. But we do propose to strike out the feature of the bill which provides for paying men who become informers and spies as well as detectives. We do propose to strike out that. It was with very great difficulty. if I remember correctly. that several Congresses ago the gentleman got into the bill that feature of it. I say the ordinary law officers of the Government. the grand j aries assembled in the various districts where these offenses are committed. and the marshals appointed and paid by the Government and whose duty it is to airest all offendersthose are the officers whose business it is to detect these persons by the ordinary process of law. They are the paid officers of the Government. It is the duty of the marshal and the grand jnries of the district toferret out allmen who are illicit distillers and who are violating the law. These are the officers of the law known to the law. But the gentleman who re ported this bill and the gentleman from Maine propose that there shall be a corps of secret uflicers. spies. and informers who shall be the means of enforcing the taws. anti who shall be paid for the secret service thus rendered by the money of the people. while there are already officers appointed by law and paid by law whose duty it is to make the necessary investigation."
460098686|I deny that the gentlemans construction of the clause under discussion is a legitimate one.
460098687|"I was about proceeuing to remark that in the first line of the paragraph we provide for detectives. and therefore it is unnecessary to add to that clause to provide fur informers also. It is to that feature of the bill and to the repetition of the word "" detection"" that I object. The bill really bears that construction. And I say we ought to resort to the courts of the country. to the marshals. and to the grand juries empanneled in the courts who by the process of subpoena have a right to summon any and everybody as witnesses and pay them according to the law as it now exists. [Here the hammer full.]"
460098688|"I do not know if I caught the purpose of the gentleman from Mississippi. I listened attentively to him and if I understood him. he is perfectly willing people shall be paid for detecting illicit distillation. but not paid if they give information. He wants the whole fund put in for detecting. but he holds in contempt. all the contempt of an irish distiller of bog whisky. the man who informs. Now. I believe the way to enforce a law is to detect a crime and arraign the criminal . and if you cannot do it. to give information to those who have the power to do it. I have no hostility to the South. and I say to the gentlemen from that section that the facts as to the number of illicit distilleries that have been suppressed. the number of Federal officers who have been murdered in attempts to suppress them. and the much larger number who have been crippled there. give to their political adversaries an amount of ammunition for the coming campaign that will infinitely more than counterbalance any local popularity that may be made among the moonshiners and their friends. Let the word ""information"" stand. Let us pay people not only for detecting but for informing the Government of violations of law which they have detected. and I think if we continue to enforce the law as well as we have done for the last few years we will be able to live through the Irish hostility to informers. The gentleman who spoke upon the tobacco tax alleged that there had been a large increase of revenue from that tax since the reduction. There has been a large increase of internal revenue. but it does not come from the tax on tobacco. That has fallen off. and I think If it had increased it would not justify us in paying people for detecting crime on condition that they should not give information."
460098689|"I desire to say a fowwords on this subject. as I come from one of the districts which makes occasionally a little ""moonshine."" known in our country sometimes as ""mountain dew."" What I desire to say is this: I am opposed to stiking out the clause in the pending paragraph appropriating money for information and detection. We have had a great many indictments in my part of the country for illicit distilling and illicit commerce in distilled spirits. There was a time when a great many good citizens. not understanding the revenue laws. innocently engaged in that business. But under the poliy of the Government saying to our people who had transgressed that if they would become lawabiding ciizens. if they would cease to make illicit whisky. they should have officers there who would treat them properly. perhaps more than two hundred persons in East Tennessee. in the portion of the country that I have the honor to represent. have been amnestied with the understanding that their honor and lawabiding purposes were pledged to see that the laws of the Government should cease to be violated. This has encouraged the honest people of the country to engage in the legal manufacture and distillation of whisky and brandy. and today distilleries according to law are springing up all over my district. instead of distilleries contrary to law as it formerly was. Within the last few mOn the legal distilleries have increased. [renewed laghter.] and illicit distilleries decreased in my section. Gentlemen may laugh at this. but it is better to make whisky according to law than to make it contrary to law. We have encouraged these men to invest their capital in distilleries. and we owe it to the men who have thus engaged in legal commerce to protect them against the illegal manufacture of whisky."
460098690|Is there not danger that you will soon have a democratic district if you have so much distillation there I
460098691|"There are not half as many persons making whisky aocording to law now as there used to be making it contrary to law. and there is. therefore. no danger of my district turning democratic. I submit to the House whether it is not a duty which we owe to those who have engaged in the legal manufacture and sale of spirits to protect them in that legal manufacture and sale. As I understand it. this appropriation now under consideration is for the purpose of protecting men who are engaged in distilling according to law. and exposing the men who are engaged in it contrary to law. As an East Tlennessean. as a tepresentative coming from a district where there has been considerable ""moonshine"" whisky manufactured. I desire to say here and now to this House that we do not want to be protected ia any violation of law. We want to be protected in maintaining the law and the dignity of the Government in collecting its revenue according to law."
460098692|"I move that the committee now rise for the pur-"" pose of limiting debate on the pending paragraph. [Cries of ""Vote!"" ""Vote!""]"
460098693|I think there will be consent to take a vote now.
460098694|"If there can be a vote. I will withdraw the motion. The question was upon the amendment of Mr. HooER to strike out the words ""including payments for information and detection ."" also to strike out ""75.000"" and insert ""50.000."" so that the paragraph will read: For detecting. and bringing to trial and puniebment. persons guilty of violating the nternal.revenm. laws. or accessory to the same. $5.500. and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall make a detailed statement to Congress once in each year as to how ho has expended this sum."
460098695|I desire to offer an amenulment to which I think there will be no objection. It is to add to the pending paragraph as amended these words: And also a detailed statement of all miscellaneous expendirmre in the division of internal revenue for which appropriation is made in this bill. On page 28 of this bill there are four lines which make an appropriation of nearly $2.000.000.
460098696|I would inquire where the amendment is to come in
460098697|At the end of the paragraph now under consideration.
460098698|I will state to the gentleman that I hold in my hand the report of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. which gives• a detailed statement of the expenditure of the $75.000 which has been under discussion this morning. I have no dbjection to the amendment.
460098699|There is no miscellaneous fund to which this amendment will apply. The ameudment of Mr. WARNER was agreed to.
460098700|I move to strike out the last word. I was not in yesterday when the inquiry was made by the gentleman from Mississippi about ho fund appropriated for the Postmaster and the SergeantatArms of the House. and the question was raised as to whether the Committee on Appropriations was in the habit of using any of that fund for postage. I wili say that I do not know that the Committee on Appropriations ever used a dollar for postage. I never myself used a dollar or a cent. I have always paid my own postage. not only upon my private letters. but also upon all official correspondence that I have had as chairman of the Committee on Appropriations. I have paid every cent of postage on my correspondonce. official or otherwise. and I can say the same thing for every member of the Committee on Appropriations. I now withdraw my formal amendment.
460098701|"I move to amend by striking out $8.000."" in line 746. and inserting $5.000. so as to make the salary of the assistant. treasurer at New York $5.000. instead of $9.000 as proposed in the bill. By turning to a portion of the bill already passed upon. it will be observed that the salary fixed for the treasurer of the United States is $6.000. and for his assistant treasurer in this city. $3.600. When the Treasurer of the United States is receiving $6.000. I do not see any reason why the assistant treasurer at New York should receive $2.000 more. Hence I offer this amendment. I do not know whether the assistant treasurer at New York performs very much greater labors than the Treasurer himself. but I presume that $5.000 is about the proper salary for this assistant treasurer."
460098702|"Mr. Chairman. [crios of ""Vote!"". Vote!""]-I hope gentlemen will be patient. We must understand something of what we are doing. There is a reason for this salary being $8.000. and it ought to be stated. New York is the great money center of this country. The funds belonging to the United States are kept at New York in much larger amounts than at Washington City. The position of assistant treasurer at New York is a more responsible position todaya far more responsible position in its moneyed obligation sthan that of Treasurer of the United States in Washington. For this reason this salary has been fixed at $8.000. It has been this amount for some time. I must say to my friend from Mississippi that the Committee on Appropriations are guided in matters of this kind by information which comes to them from the Secretary of the Treasury and from other Treasury officers. I believe there is no desire on the part of the Secretary of the Treasury to increase the salary of the Treasurer above $6.000. while there would be a vigorous protest against reducing the. salary of the assistant treasurer at New York below $8.000. I will say right here that the Committee on Appropriations in the preparation of this bill neglected to pass upon the proposed increase of last yerr to the salary of the subtreasurer in the city of Boston. I have no oubt that had we acted on it this time we would have increased that salary. But if a proposition of that sort should now be made. pen this bill. I shall be compelled. in order to be consistent. to raise a point of order upon it. I think the salary of the assistant treasurer at New York should remain at (1.000 for the reasons I have given. Mr. H00:fER. I wisllto say one word. If there is any necessity for keeping a larger amount of the funds of the Government at New York City than ..nywhere else. Iam not aware of the fact. The Treasury of the UniteC States as established by the laws of the land is the proper place for th custody of the funds of the Government. There has been. it is true. an assistant treasurer at New York. and also one at New Orleans. The tame rule that applies to New York would probably apply to New Ork ans. yet I am not aware that there is any such provision in reference to the latter place. I see no necessity for keeping more of the funds of the Government in New York than are kept at Washington. I pre sume the business in New York is pretty large. and if the funds of thE Government are kept thereits drafts must be paid there. but what i the necessity for keeping the funds of the Government there? How has it arisen? It is true that New York is a large center of business."
460098703|Probably fourfifths of the interest on the public debt is paid at New York City.
460098704|That may be probable. but why should it be? That is simply a regulation of the Treasury Department. not a law. I insist that my amendment is proper and reasonable. and ought to be adopted. The amendment of Mr. HOOKER was not agreed to.
460098705|I move to amend by adding to the paragraph just read the following: That all material and supplies for United States mints shall be obtained aftit advertisement and from the lowest bidder as now provided by law. I do not desire to discuss the amendment. I think the committee will readily see that it ought to be adopted.
460098706|I move that the committee now rise.
460098707|Let this amendment be voted on.
460098708|I would rather understand more as to the effect of it. The motion of Mr. ATKINS. that the committee rise. was agreed to. The committee accordingly rose. and the Speaker having resumed the chair. Mr. Cox reported that the Committee of the Whole on the state of the Union had had under consideration the bill (H. R. No. 6185) making appropriations for the legislative. executive. and judicial expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June 30. 1881. and for other purposes. and had come to no resolution thereon.
460098709|The gentleman from North Carolina. chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs. who was compelled to leave the Hall a few moments ago on account of sickness. desired me to ask that the former order of the House for the consideration tonight of a specific measure from the Committeeon Indian Affairs be extended so as to allow the consideration of all reports from that committee.
460098710|What does this proposition include?
460098711|All reports from the Committee on Indian Affairs.
460098712|Does it include any bill in regard to the Territory of Oklahoma?
460098713|It has nothing to do with that at all.
460098714|Does it include the transfer of the Indian Bureau to the War Department?
460098715|That report has not been made yet. The bill has simply been referred.
460098716|I did not hear the gentlemans answer.
460098717|I mistake. The report on that subject has been made. but there is no intention to bring it up tonight. I ask that it be excepted from the order.
460098718|The gentleman asks that the order which was made assigning tonights session for the consideration exclusively of the bill in reference to the Osage Indians be extended so as toinclude all reports from the Committee on Indian Affairs. except the transfer of the Indian Bureau from the Interior to the War Department.
460098719|With that exception. I make no objection.
460098720|Let it be the understanding that the subject is not to come up either as an amendment or in a bill.
460098721|Let that be expressed in the order.
460098722|I want to inquire whether it is the intention to bring up the Te bill?
460098723|There is no time for .debate. as the hour for the recess is at hand.
