speech_id|speech
710218753|Mr. Speaker. I want to add to the volumes that have been spoken and written about the new tariff act of 1930 just as few words and some convincing figures. In comparison to the great quantity of stuff that has been spoken and written about this tariff act I think that probably fewer actual facts have lodged in the minds of hearers and readers than in connection with any other incident il history. I am going to cut out the oratory and argument and try to get down to a few brief facts and discuss this tariff act chiefly as to its benefit to the State of Colorado. To begin with it should be emphasized that twothirds of the imports into the United States are on the free list. So the tariff applies only to about onethird of the imports that come into this country. Of approxinlately 3.300 items in the tariff list. only about 890 receive an increased rate. 235 are decreased. and 2.175 items remain the same as they were. Of the total value of all imports into the United States. the increases iu the tariff act will apply to only 221/2 per cent. So that 77/2 per cent of the total values of imports remain the same or are reduced. Collections for customs under the 1922 tariff act for 1928 was $522.649.383. If the rates in this new act had been applied on same imports. the collections would have been $630.456.280. The increases in the new act are divided 68 per cent o agricultural products and 32 per cent Ol industrial items. So in money value of duties collected on 1928 imports the increase would have been $72.181.314 on agricultural products and $36.402.057 ols industrial items. Clearly agriculture has the best of it -under this tariff act. No tariff ever written has treated the products of the farm. the stock range. and the dairy so favorably.
710218754|"Mr. Speaker. the American watch manufacturer was seriously handicapped because of the inadequacy of the tariff act of 1922. and the unfair and isnethical practices of unscrupulous importers. For anyone to realize what the American manufacturer of watches has been confronted with during the past few years. lIe must know the story of the nefarious methods and practices of the ring of those unscrupulous importers. who have stooped to the lowest and meanest of crimes in order to line their l)ockets with gold. American business prides itself on the high plane upon which it is conducted. honesty and integrity mean something to tile Amiericau manufacturer. But to the dishonest and crooked band of watch importers the term ""good business practices"" is only a joke. The race between Americanmade and foreigrmade watches in the United States is unfair from the very start. The Americal manufacturer with a tremendous investment in real estate. plant. and equipment. with an army of highly skilled and highly paid artisans and a reputation for honesty and integrity of many years standing must sell his product in competition with the product handled by the ulscrupulous importer of Swiss watches. I product wholly inferior to the Alnericaninade product. produced by cheap labor. at a niggardly wage. hardly enough to furnish the bare necessities of life. even according to the European standard. a large proportion. estimated at onethird of the total imports. smuggled into the United States. thus escaping the payment of the whole duties. or so falsely undervalued -is to avoid the payment of the tax required by law. the Swiss watches are landed in New York at a cost that would not even begin to represent the real value of any watch honestly made. honestly imported. and honestly sold. Then. by blatant advertising. using radio broadcasting. extensive advertising ill magazines. newspapers. billboards. and every other conceivable agency. the campaign for extermination is on. Full page advertisements ill the leading national magazines playing up American heroes. American landmarks. such as the National Capitol at Washington. the Statue of Liberty. and so on. linked with these cheap watches. are a part of the scheme to dcceive the American public into thinking that they are purchasing an Anericanmsade product. This costly and persistent ballyhoo continues day after day. week after week. and inontis after month. until the unsuspecting American people cone to believe that such product has great merit. The millions of dollars spent on extensive merlchandising and advertising campaigns could only have been obtained by unconscionable profits. Not only is the quality of the product misrepresented but its origin is attempted to be concealed. a meaningless guaranty is glibly quoted. and highsounding trade names are applied to the watches sold by a firm which has no longestablished factory. no a name of which it can be proud. To beguile and mislead the retailer is the next step. and the means resorted to to accomplish this end are almost unbelievable. The tales of enormous profits which can be made and great nationwide advertising campaign are pictured. The good Americanuade watches. honestly made by workers who are paid a high iiage. honestly merchandised and honestly priced. are slandered in the asost malicious way. and fanciful stories are poured into the ears of greedy retailers to tell to innocent purchasers. Such ridiculous stories are told as that one of the American factories is located on the banks of a river and the fog comes up and rusts the plates. therefore this American watch should not be reconmmended. that the American watch has no escapement and the hands only turn one way. that the pinions are ground in salt. that the watches will not keep time and are troublemakers. Notwithstanding all the foregoing. the American watchbuying public still asks for Americaiiquality watches. and so the gentle art of ""switching"" is used as a last resort. The customer is gently and gradually ""switched "" to an alien watch bearing a fanciful adopted name. and in many instances. believing the local retail jeweler to be the last word in honesty and integrity. yields."
