speech_id|speech
1010205884|Mr. Speaker. I wish to take this occasion to congratulate the international law firm of Squire Sanders & Dempsey of Cleveland. OH on its centennial anniversary. Squire Sanders & Dempsey opened its doors In Cleveland on January 1. 1890 and continues practicing under its original name today. The firm has grown to more than 425 lawyers In 8 cities in the United States and Europe and very ably serves clients in virtually all parts of the world. During its illustrious lifetime. Squire Sanders & Dempsey has participated in a rich tableau of world history including the election of Gov. William McKinley to the Presidency of the United States and his reelection in 1900. service as special counsel to the Federal Government in the Teapot Dome scandal during the Harding administration to postwar slum clearance and urban development. Of particular note is the firms commitment to community involvement. The lawyers of Squire Sanders & Dempsey believe strongly in community participation whether it is In Cleveland. New York or Brussels. Belgium. All of these communities are richer for this dedication to involvement.
1010205885|Mr. Speaker. on Monday. the current and past leaders of the Jewish Community Relations Council of Greater Boston will gather for an event that will be both sad and cheerful. The event. which I hope to attend if legislative business allows. Is a reception In honor of Philip Perlmutter who is retiring as executive director of the Jewish Community Relations Council of Boston after many years of extraordinarily able service. Obviously this Is a sad moment for us because we will lose Phils service In this Important position. But it is a cheering one because it is an occasion in which we will celebrate Phils work. and the values of decency. schol. arship. and community which he has so brilliantly represented. Phil Perlmutter is. happily for those of us who have had the benefit of his leadership in these past years. an unusual combination of talents. He is a scholar of considerable talent. with a particular interest in relations between and among various communities in our society. He is a forceful and brilliant advocate on behalf of a wide range of causesantidiscrimInation legislation. an American foreign policy which recognizes our strong national interest in firm ties between America and Israel. an educational system which allows everyone in this country to reach his or her fullest potential and other important matters. He also has a capacity for friendship which has meant a great deal to the many of us who have benefitted from it. In my work first in the Massachu. setts Legislature and now in the U.S. House of Representatives. he is one of the people on whom I have frequently relied for advice. suggestions. and. when the occasion warranted it. the kind of helpful criticism that is an Invaluable gift from a friend. Phil has earned his right to retirement and none of us begrudge it. But our regret at this changing of the guard is strongly mitigated by knowing that he will continue to be an extraordinary asset We are all very lucky that Phil was so willing to devote his very considerable talents to work on behalf of others.
1010205886|Mr. Speaker. I rise today to pay tribute to the parishoners of St. Johns Church. who are celebrating the churchs 300th anniversary on September 15. 1990. Located in Hollywood. MD. St. Johns parish was established In 1690 and Is among the oldest Catholic parishes in the State of Maryland. St. Johns Is the largest Catholic parish in St. Marys County with a congregation of over 800 families. St. Johns Church has roots deeply embedded in the historic religious culture of St. Marys County. Mr. Speaker. it is with great pride that I salute the history of St. Johns Church. and I know that my colleagues join me In congratulating the churchs parishioners and its pastor. Father Martin Harris. on this historic occasion.
1010205887|Mr. Speaker. 75 years ago. 11 men gathered on a Sunday afternoon in April at the home of Charles M. Burtis with the Rev. Ulysses Grant Warren. it was 1915. and they were to make decisions that would change lives and better a community. A week later 30 members gathered at the Douglas Manor Innnow the Douglaston Clubto organize. A new church community was born. The infant congregation leased a former plumbing shop on Main Avenue. using only a potbellied stove for warmth. In 1916 a Young Peoples Society and a Womens Guild were formed. The next year. a constitution. bylaws. and creed were adopted. In 1918 the church voted to affiliate with the Reformed Church of America. The growing young church made plans for a new building. Mr. Speaker. the congregation continued to grow by leaps. and plans for a newer. larger building were called for in 1923. Over the years. the membership grew. and the church expanded its size and ministry. By the 50th anniversary in 1965. various additions and renovations had been made. and the church would soon enter its most vibrant period. Mr. Speaker. in 1972 Rev. John H. Meyer was installed as pastor. and he has been there for the past 18 years. During this time. the church has become a cornerstone in community involvement. and a number of civil groups use the church buildings and Fellowship hall as a home for their meetings. The church is the home of the BlantonPlele Counseling Center. one of the Nations oldest and most respected churchaffiliated therapeutic services. The church is also involved in the arts. and sponsors music and theatre series. Support for culture is an ongoing priority. The church is a haven for children. offering Sunday school. nursery school. an afterschool program. and a young group. Mr. Speaker. the Community Church of Douglaston has become a landmark In the region for its openness and warmth. Its devotion to the spiritual health of the community. as well as to culture. civil pride. and education has made all our lives better ones for the past 75 years.
1010205888|Mr. Speaker. it is with great pride that I rise today to pay tribute to the Hispanic awards ceremony that will be held in Flint. MI. on Sunday. September 16.1990. Every year the Hispanic community of Genesee County holds an awards ceremony in conjunction with National Hispanic Heritage Month to recognize outstanding members of the community. This years awards ceremony. which is sponsored by local community volunteers. business merchants. the Spanish Speaking Information Center and the International Institute. will honor citizens who have contributed selflessly in the areas of service. leadership. education. and labor. With festivities that include the ceremony followed by a dance. the celebration will focus on the myriad accomplishments of the growing Hispanic population whose culture and ideas will be a positive shaping force for our great Nation throughout the next century. The four awards presented this year will honor those individuals who have made the community a better place to live. The Pedro Mata Leadership Award which recognizes those who identify opportunities. provide encouragement. and support the local community will be given to Larry Cuevas for his outstanding contributions in these areas. The Tano Resendez Award for Service. which acknowledges those who have dedicated personal time and effort to civic and cultural activities. will be presented to Frank Barters who has worked tirelessly to benefit his community. The Joe Benavides Education Award will be given to Margarita Calvo who has devoted extra effort to support the educational needs of Hispanics. Finally. in addition to these three awards. the United Auto Workers will honor Arturo Reyes who has advocated and promoted the rights of all American workers. All four recipients. Larry Cuevas. Frank Barrera. Margarita Calvo. and Arturo Reyes. are outstanding role models for all youth of every background and ethnic heritage. Mr. Speaker. I take great pride in commending the Hispanic Community of Flint for their excellent work in promoting Hispanic culture and Ideas and I congratulate them all for their tremendous accomplishments. 39059 09126 (PL 171
1010205889|"Mr. Speaker. I rise today to pay tribute to a distinguished educator In my district. Alice Garrett. who was recently recognized for her outstanding contributions to classroom education. Mrs. Garrett. an American history and AfricanAmerican studies teacher at Athens Drive High School In Raleigh. NC. was the recipient of the National Council of Negro Womens Southeastern Regional ""Excellence in Teach. Ing"" award. This award was presented to teachers displaying excellence in their profession and encouraging superior achievement among African American Students. Mrs. Garrett Is among the first to receive this award. which was presented as part of the National Black Family Reunion Celebration held here in Washington. DC. last week. Mrs. Garretts achievements have had a tremendous impact upon her students and community. In the classroom. she has Incorporated an AfricanAmerican studies program Into her American history curriculum. Mrs. Garrett has used this programentitled ""A Great Legacy""-to provide her students greater insight Into black culture and Its Impact upon the development of our Nation. Mrs. Garrett has also developed and implemented an annual countywide program saluting minority educators In our area. She designed this program to address the growing teacher recruitment and retention problems in North Carolina and has used it to encourage more minority students to enter the field of education. Mrs. Garrett Is truly the kind of educator we need In todays changing society. Her Ingenulty and dedication have helped her students to reach new heights culturally and educationally. I congratulate her upon the receipt of this richly deserved honor. H.R. 5416"
1010205890|Mr. Speaker. the following Is the text of H.R. 5416: H.R. 5416 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled.
1010205891|Mr. Speaker. I rise today to pay tribute to Jay David Watson of Santa Barbara. who recently retired after a long and distinguished career In public service. Dave Is a native of Santa Barbara and a 1931 graduate of Santa Barbara Teachers College. In that year. he joined the Santa Barbara County Auditors staff as deputy auditor. He worked his way up through the ranks to become the county purchasing agent In 1950. and In 1956. he became the countys first administrative officer. retiring In 1968 after 33 years of service. Like many of his generation. Dave saw service in World War II. serving 4 years in the Pacific Theater with the U.S. Navy. He retired from the Naval Reserve at age 60 with the rank of commander. having served 43 years. In 1969. he was appointed president of the board of trustees of the Goleta Cemetery District. a nonpaying position. During 21 years on the board. he has been responsbile for many programs directed at making the district a professional and respected government agency. able to serve the needs of Santa Barbara residents for many years into the future. Dave is also active In the Presbyterian Church. serving 1 year as administrator. All told. Daves service to his community totals an astounding 109 yearsa remarkable record of public service. Mr. Speaker. on behalf of the U.S. House of Representatives. I join with Dave Watsons fellow citizens In commending and congratulating him for his services to the Santa Barbara community. and In wishing he and his wife. Madan McCandless. with whom he has just celebrated their 59th wedding anniversary. a happy and rewarding retirement.
1010205892|Mr. Speaker. with the price of gas going up at the pumps and with the threat of a possible oil supply Interruption as a result of the serious situation In the Middle East. it would appear at first blush that not many things have changed since the first energy crisis In the early 1970s. We still do not have a coherent national energy strategy. We are still overly reliant on Imported oil. And we are still highly vulnerable to the oil politics in the Middle East. In the midst of these hard realities. there is some good news in the energy areathat Is the important role that the growth in nuclear energy has played in reducing United States and world dependence on Imported oil. A recent analysis by the Science Concept. Inc.. commissioned by the U.S. Council on Energy Awareness. sheds new light on nuclear energys energy security connection and Its displacement on foreign oil. Among the findings of the report are: Since 1973. nuclear energy has displaced a total of 4.3 billion barrels of oil in the United States. To date. our investment In nuclear energy has saved the United States $125 billion In foreign oil payments. Nuclear energy has played a major role in weaning our domestic reliance on oil for electrification. Use of oil for electricity has been reduced to 5.6 percent of total U.S. electrical output. down from doubleddigits in the 1970s. and The report does note that oil use for electric generation has been Increasing since 1988. a trend that should concern all of us. This report is convincing evidence both for a national energy strategy that promotes an expanded role for our domestic energy resources and for a strong role for nuclear energy in any national energy strategy. I commend to my colleagues the text of the Science Concept report:
1010205893|Mr. Speaker. as a fitting tribute to Hispanic Heritage Month. I rise today to recognize the outstanding contributions of the Hispanic community in the city of Flint. Continuing a rich tradition of civic participation. the Hispanic community of Flint continues to make tremendous contributions to the development of our city. Hispanic professionals have become important role models for our youth and have greatly added to the quality of life In Flint. With the diversity and wealth of their cultural heritage. the Hispanic community has woven a full and beautiful pattern into the fabric of every corner of my district. The Hispanic community has enriched not only my district. but also the Nation as a vhole. With important roles In government. the arts. education. labor. business. science. and every niche of society. the evergrowing presence of the Hispanic community is a vibrant force in America that Is helping to shape the future of our great Nation. It is truly an honor to recognize the Hispanic community and their outstanding efforts to promote cultural diversity and understanding. You are to be commended for your tremendous accomplishments.
