speech_id|speech
510126231|Mr. Speaker. I desire to have the amendment which I offered pending when the time arrives for a vote. and I ask the gentleman from Tennessee to let it be submitted so that it may be pending.
510126232|Mr. Speaker. let the amendment be read. so that we may know what we are doing.
510126233|Mr. Speaker. I also want to offer an amendment. in order to have it pending when the time comes to vote.
510126234|pro temnpore. The Clerk will again report the amendment of the gentleman from Arkansas.
510126235|The Clerk will read the amendment of the gentleman from Texas .
510126236|That amendment has been already adopted.
510126237|A similar amendment which was adopted related to section 2.
510126238|I presume. then.this amendment is designed to make the third section correspond with the second. I suppose there can be no objection.
510126239|The Clerk has not read theamendment on which I desire the action of the House. The amendment just read was adopted. as I understand. by unanimous consent.
510126240|The Chair is informed that the amendment was not adopted.
510126241|Then I ask unanimous consent that it be adopted now.
510126242|Is there objection?
510126243|Let it be considered as pending. I can not agree that it be adopted by unanimous consent.
510126244|pro temporc. The gentleman from Ohio objects.
510126245|If the gentleman from Ohio understood this matter he would not object. The same amendment was adopted on motion of the gentleman from Pennsylvania to section two. This amendment simply makes section three conform to that.
510126246|I would like to have the Clerk read my other amendment. that it may be considered as pending.
510126247|The regular order is demanded. The gentleman from Tennessee will proceed.
510126248|"Mr. Speaker. the subject under consideration. House bill No. 11569. reported favorably by the Committee on PostOffices and PostRoads. being a substitute for House bills Nos. 177.241. 242. 3321. and 8987. referred to that committee. on which I have the honor to serve. is one that demands from the members of this body the most careful and considerate attention. The bill before us proposes to so amend sections 3894. 3929. and 4041. Revised Statutes. as to prohibit the use of the mails for the purpose of in any way distributing advertisements or advertising matter pertaining to lotteries. gift enterprises. or schemes to obtain money or property by games of chance. in fact. to prohibit the use of the mails fbr the purpose of carrying on a correspondence with any lottery or any lottery with the patrons thereof. This bill seeks to suppress that species of gambling which is carried on through the agency or instrumentality of lotteries. Sections 3894. 3929. and 4041 of the Revised Statutes refer only to ""illegal"" or ""fraudulent"" lotteries. It is not my purpose to discuss the constitutional questions involved. if there be any. but my confidence in the wisdom of the Supreme Court is such that I am quite satisfied to allow that body to deal with this question. I shall confine my remarks briefly to existing facts. The Louisiana State Lottery claims that it is not an ""illegal"" lottery. as it exists under the constitution and laws of that State. and that it is not a ""fraudulent"" lottery or scheme devised and intended to deceive and defraud the public for the purpose of obtaining money under false pretenses. and so far the Government has failed to successfully prosecute a case against this company. although it is quite evident that Congress intended to confer upon the PostmasterGeneral authority to stamp out and suppress all lotteries. and each and every State. with the exception of Louisiana. has cooperated with the PostmasterGeneral. and every State. aside from Louisiana. has suppressed this class of gambling so far as possible within its limits. and now comes up a demand. an appeal. that has been ofttimes repeated. for protection by the National Government. The States in their sovereign capacity have tried to protect themselves and their citizens from this immoral monster by provisions in their respective constitutions and by legislative enactment. but the United States mails will not permit them to doso. The States prohibit by law their own newspapers from advertising any lotteries or the drawings of any lotteries. The States have. in every way possible. endeavored to quarantine against this pestilence. and yet the United States persists in disregarding the wishes of the States. as expressed in their respective constitutions and laws. by delivering through its mails advertisements for the sale of lottery tickets. into the States and into the homes of the people. thereby corrupting the youth and swindling and robbing the people. The Louisiana lottery has twelve regular drawings each year. ten monthlies and two known as semiannual. Each regular monthly drawing: 100.000 tickets. at $20 -------------------------- $2. 000. 000 3.134 prizes ---------------------------------1.054.800 Profit monthly -------------------------------945.200 Profits of ten regular drawings each year ---------------9.452.000 Each semiannual drawing: 100.000 tickets. at $40 each ----------------------- 4.000.000 3.134 prizes --------------------------------- 2.109.600 Profit each semiannual drawing ---------------- 1.890. 400 Profits yearly on semiannual drawings ---------------- 3. 780. 800 Profit on ten monthly drawings ----------------------- 9.452.000 Profit on two semiannual drawings ------------------- 3. 780. 800 Total annual profits --------------------------- 13.232. 800 This is the estimated clear profit of the company annually. as the daily drawings held are expected to. and undoubtedly do. pay all the expenses of the company. The daily drawings held each day at 4 p. m. are even more pernicious in their effects than the regular lottery drawings. The mode of conducting these is. briefly. as follows: Seventyeight numbers. from 1 to 78. are placed in a wheel. each number inclosed in a tube. Out of this number thirteen are drawn by a blindfolded boy. and the numbers are entered on a blackboard in the order in which drawn. The tickets for this drawing are sold at 25 cents each for onefourth ticket. and the purchaser is permitted to select and have entered upon the ticket when purchased any three of the numbers from 1 to 78. If the first three numbers drawn from the wheel correspond with the three numbers on the ticket. and are drawn in the order in which they appear on the ticket. a prize of $6.000 is paid (something that has neveryet happened in the history of the company and would not likely happen if conducted for the next hundred years). If. however. of the thirteen numbers drawn out of the wheel three of them happen to correspond with the three numbers on your ticket. a prize of about $36 is given. By paying an extra 25 cents on a ticket you can put what is called a ""gig and saddle"" on it. and then in the event that two of the numbers on your ticket correspond with any two of the thirteen numbers drawn from the wheel. a prize of $2.45 is paid. There are sundry other ways of betting on this scheme. but these are the most common because the most simple. By a mathematical calculation It is found that the chance to win a capital prize is one in 67.525. and when you win it you only get $4.275.40 for $1. as against $15.000 for $1 in the monthly. with a chance of 1 in 100.000. The chance to win a prize of $4.25 is 1 in 1.237. The chance to win $1.70 is as 1 to 19. Take. for instance. the ""washerwonians gig ""-41144the chance that these three. or any other three numbers. will. in any order. be the first three numbers out of the thirteen taken from the wheel. Five days in the week is the continued product of the numbers 7S. 77. 76. divided by 6. which is 76.076. so that 1 in 76.076 is the chance to win. In other words. if one should play this gig every day for 253 years. the mathematical chances are that it would come out once. and after spending $76.076 one would. if it did come. receive the munificent prize of $100. If you bet that any particular number will be one of the thirteen drawn. your chance to win is 1 in 6. and if you do win you are paid 4 for 1. Compare these figures with those of the roulette table. Your chance to win there is 1 in 31. if you do win you are paid 27 for 1. The professional gambler. who is denounced by the law. indicted bygrandj uries. and hunted by the police as a species of thief. is satisfied with a percentage in his favor of 12 per cent. This gigantic corporation turns its wheel daily for the unnumbered multitude who may bet at its game. The smallest percentage it permits itself to take is 22 per cent. On the most of its game its percentage is from 33 to 41 per cent.. and on part of its game incalculable. This is the real skingame annex to the Louisiana State Lottery. and poor servant girls. children. bootblacks. draymen. hackmen. in fact men of high and low degree by the thousands. patronize this scheme. Agents are located at convenient places all over the city where their tickets are sold and at which places prizes are paid on presentation of winning tickets. One hundred and twenty agents. estimated average receipts of each from $50 to $60 per day. About $10.000 worth of postagestamps and stamped envelopes are purchased monthly by the lottery company. This represents 500.000 letters they mail monthly. or 6.000.000 annually. each one of which is a violation of law. In addition to this the lottery company secures cheap (especially sporting) newspapers to publish their advertisements and send out tons of them to all parts of the United States on pound rates as sample copies. Very recently the Spirit of the South. a cheap local sporting paper of limited circulation. sent out in one week 4.947 pounds of sample copies. representing about 50.000 copies of the paper. On examination it was found that the paper. in addition to the regular advertisement. contained several columns of local advertisements of the lottery company. The postage paid upon this 2J tons of papers. representing 50.000 pieces of mail matter. is but $49.47. To send a lottery circular through the mails under existing statutes is unlawful. yet that circular in many cases is exactly the same as the advertisements contained in the newspapers. To send through the mails sealed circulars costs 2 cents per ounce. Newspapers and periodicals from regular publishers cost but 1 cent per pound. To have mailed 50.000 circulars instead of the 50.000 copies of the Spirit of the South before alluded to. and which contained the same matter. would have cost $1.000 for postage. instead of $49.47. It is made not only lawful to publish the circulars in newspapers. but much cheaper. Encouraged by the success of the Louisiana lottery. foreign lottery companies are now advertising in hundreds of the American papers and are building up quite a business. and establishing agencies in all the leading cities of this country. I find advertised in the Washington daily papers the Louisiana State Lottery. Grand Lottery of Juarez (Mexico). Lottery of Mexican National Government. and I find there the name of that former distinguished soldier. diplomat. and statesman. John S. Mosby. as commissiouer of the Juarez lottery. Your attention is invited to the fact that the great financial system of this nation. through its agents. four national banks of New Orleans. stands as sponsor or indorser of the Louisiana State Lottery. I find nothing in the act creating the nationalbanking system. defining the duties or prescribing the powers of the same. that authorizes national banks. or in the course of business justifies them. to engage in any such copartnerships. I find. too. among the cards published in a New Orleans paper certain national banks (one in the Lone Star State. another in the newborn State bearing the name of the Father of this Country) advertised as among those drawing prizes in the Louisiana State Lottery. July 15. 1890. Is it possible that members of this great nationalbanking system. a financial system that is the pride of the nation. should lend their names and credit to encourage and stimulate illegitimate schemes like lotteries for obtaining money ? Is it surprising that Canada has secured such a large number of our bank presidents and cashiers? It becomes the nations disgraceits accredited agents. national banks. the custodians of the peoples savings. participating in a scheme for obtaining money that is recognized by the intelligence of the world as illegitimate. illegal. fraudulent. and the most disgraceful species of gambling. A CARD. ber. Class G. in the Louisiana State Lottery. which drew the second capital prize of $100.000. on Tuesday. July 15. 1890. and that the amount was promptly paid by a check on theNew OrleansNational Bank on presentation of theticket at the office of the company."
510126249|"Mr. Speaker. the lottery is the most pernicious and widespread form of gambling vice. because it uses for its instrument the PostOffice Department. that is. the Government. The ordinary gambling hell is confined to one house and its frequenters. A lottery spreads through the whole nation. it reaches everywhere. and it does it by the aid of the Government. It was not for this that we built up our magnificent postal system. which is supported at such vast expense annually. Yet that postal system is the instrument today and might almost be called the partner or accessory of this great swindling scheme. What else is there of it ? The capital stock of the Louisiana Lottery Company when it was organized was called $1.000.000. that is. they pretended that there was a million of dollars invested in shares of stock. As a matter of fact. the investment consisted of some stationery and tickets. a franchise. and the facilities afforded by the United States mails. with the protection which the Government accords to the sacred* ness of the seal. and thus kept all their business secret. while affording them every facility for carrying on this profitable mischief. So thl stock rose to 1.400 per cent. This bill. it is believed. will do what several others which we have passed for the same purpose tailed to do. stop that partnership. end that abuse. and we can prove by our votes today in passing it as Representatives that this is a Government for the people. for their good. and not to destroy the people by nourishing this engine of deceit and wrong. Again and again the PostmasterGeneral has tried to exclude the lottery letters and tickets from the mails. but the law has been evaded and the question now comes up again with the increase of the wrong. The President has sent us a pressing message. the PostOffice Depart. ment has collaborated in the preparation of this bill. the AttorneyGeneral has pronounced it constitutional and efficient. it has the sympathy of good men and women everywhere. It is to extinguish an industry of wrong that has grown to such stupendous proportions that it now gathers in $22.000.000 annually from the people. The company has become so balefully powerful that it attempts to debauch Legislatures and the press and many of the people in a great State. It attempted by enormous bribery and offer of a quarter of a million dollars to capture North Dakota. but the sturdy people of that State. poor and hard pressed as they were. proved to be of a stronger and better material than these schemers had estimated. It is demoralizing to people. Go down to their office in this city and see the long line of anxious faces gathered there every day. poorly dressed women. workingmen. eager clerks. the eyes of all lighted with cupidity and dazzled with the promises of the company. These policyoffices exert the same evil influence everywhere. and thousands more are reached through the mails until the lottery craze and infatu. ation grows upon them and they spend all they have in this insane gambling. and often end in ruin. sometimes in suicide. There is an enormous gambling hell conducted with great splendor at Monaco. in Italy. which has corrupted the press into silence and entices the world by palatial splendors. An officer of the British Christian Association. which had undertaken to investigate the real workings of that place. told me that they had a list of two hundred suicides there in one year. none of which had been published in thQ press. This was a gambling establishment confined to one place. ang not like this stupendous Louisiana scheme. which reachesits arms over the whole nation. It has corrupted the employgs in the PostOffice Department. as the inspectors have reported. and made some of the agents of the Government the agents ofthe lottery. who can be influenced. just as it was proved in Louisiana that members of the Legislature can be influenced by so rich a power. Railway postal clerks are tempted to rob the mails. seeing the vast number of these lottery letters passing through containing money and knowing that they are letters from a dupe to a swindler and the whole business dishonest. It presents unusual temptation to the railway postal clerks. and the Department states that there has been a great increase of mail robbery from this particular quarter. The prodigious sums collected by the lottery company. which are drawn in small amounts. prove how many thousands of people are becoming infatuated with the lottery craze. debased and robbed and turned from honest pursuits. and this is getting worse all the time. It is not pleasant to people struggling hard with the task of daily life to see the prodigious fortunes piled up by this great swindle and to witness the dazzling splendors and gayeties at watering places and fashionable resorts of persons who bear the very names that are seen in these lottery charters. persons who never do a day s work. never produce a pound of what goes to feed or clothe or render comfortable their fellowman. following an occupation as vile and as pernicious as this by the authority of a State. and with the facilities afforded by the United States through its PostOffice Department passing all others in this worlds goods. ""They toil not. neither do they spin. yet Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these."" Without the aid of the Government through the PostOffice Department. the whole business would be cut down to a mere local gambling establishment. answerable to the police powers of the local government. That is what I trust this bill will do. It broadens the present law so that a lottery letter can be followed after it is mailed at New Orleans or Washington. which are the centers of the lottery business. and the offenders punished wherever the letter goes. not alone in Louisiana. where juries can be readily affected by the tremendous power of the lottery company. It will close the mailsto newspapers advertising lotteries. which will be a long step toward destroying their means of reaching and deluding the victim by alluring advertisements and promises which appeal to the cupidity of the ignorant and unthinking who hasten to be rich without labor. Nor does it in the least interfere with the inviolability of the seal upon letters. which will be as sacred hereafter as they have been and always should be. It authorizes the PostmasterGeneral. upon satisfactory evidence. which will soon be obtained by the agents of the Department. in regard to the character of lottery letters. to stop their transmission through the mails and institute proceedings to punish those sending. We know that the PostmasterGeneral will faithfully and zealously perform his part if we do ours and pass this bill. Let us do it. and do it now. M AIr. CRAIN. I now desire a vote on my amendment to section 3. being the same as that offered by the gentleman from Pennsylvania to section 2. and adopted by the House. The gentleman in charge of the bill will. I suppose. acquiesce in this amendment."
