speech_id|speech
1060186144|Mr. President. today I am introducing legislation which provides fair relief to schools in Michigan and other states. In 1993. the state of Michigan and our school districts worked out an agreement which would provide schools a portion of Federal Medicaid dollars based on school based health related activities that were being provided to eligible children receiving special education services. When these school superintendents looked around in 1996. they saw a similarly situated state which was providing administrative services to help special needs kids. and they decided to follow suit for children in Michigan. Michigan then implemented the Administrative Outreach component of school based services based on a program that had been in operation in that state for the previous two years. Recently. HCFA disallowed $103.6 million in claims submitted by the state of Michigan to reimburse the schools for services already rendered in this effort. It is simply unfair that these school districts are now being penalized when they have been trying to provide health services through the schools for special needs kids in ways used in other states and after relying on HCFA regional guidance. I have met with a large group of Michigan school superintendents and their staff and I know how committed they are to helping children with special needs. Apparently. the rules need to be clarified. and in a meeting with HCFA that the Michigan superintendents had this week. HCFA committed to sitting down with the education community by the end of this month to finalize an administrative guide regarding claims for reimbursement. That is surely an appropriate goal. but in the meantime. Michigan claims have been disallowed although the state relied on regional HCFA guidance. While national guidance is being clarified. we should not penalize states who have acted reasonably based on existing guidance. I believe Michigan school superintendents when they say they believed they were acting appropriately in providing services for children with special educational needs. These are honest hardworking people trying to run school districts on tight budgets. I am introducing this legislation because I believe any attempt to penalize schools who acted in good faith will ultimately hurt special needs kids as well as our schools themselves. By Mr. ALLARD (for himself and
1060186145|"Mr. President. I rise today. with Senator BEN NIGHTHORSE CAMPBELL. to introduce a very important piece of legislation for my state of Colorado and this nationThe Rocky Flats National Wildlife Refuge Act. My colleague. Representative MARK UDALL. is introducing companion legislation in the House cosponsored by the entire Colorado delegation. Today we begin a new chapter in the history of Rocky Flats. This legislation will permanently designate the Rocky Flats Environmental Technology Site as a National Wildlife Refuge following the cleanup and closure of the site. It ensures that the Federal Government will retain full liability and ownership of this former nuclear weapons facility. This legislation will transform Rocky Flats from producing weapons to protecting wildlife. It will ensure that our children and grandchildren will be able to enjoy the wildlife and open space that currently exists at Rocky Flats. This is a tremendous achievement. Once the bill is enacted. we will see Rocky Flats move from being an active nuclear weapons site into an active refuge for wildlife and wild flowers in less than two decades. An accomplishment which no one thought was possible. My vested interest in Rocky Flats began during the 1980s when I was the Chairman of the State Senate Committee on Health. Environment. Welfare and Institutions. Although I supported the national security mission of the Rocky Flats site prior to closure. I believe that the Department of Energy must also ensure the safety and health of all Coloradans and the environment. When the Rocky Flats site was shut down in 1990. cleaning up and closing down the site became one of my top legislative priorities and will remain so until this project is complete. So where did the idea come from to turn Rocky Flats. a former nuclear weapons production facility. into a National Wildlife Refuge? My experience with wildlife refuge designations began with Congresswoman Schroeder at the Rocky Mountain Arsenal in 1992. We worked on a bill very similar to the one we are here to discuss today. which designated the Arsenal as a National Wildlife Refuge. Given the success we experienced at the Rocky Mountain Arsenal. I am confident this is an appropriate designation for Rocky Flats. Last year. I became the Strategic Subcommittee Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. which has direct oversight of former DoE weapons facilities including Rocky Flats. This is the first site in the DoE complex to receive funding for cleanup and closure. and will therefore be a role model for other sites in the complex. As Chairman of the Subcommittee. I will continue to work closely with my colleagues to educate them on the importance of cleaning up and closing down Rocky Flats so it can be utilized as a National Wildlife Refuge. This education extends beyond the cleanup and closure of Rocky Flats to the importance of cleaning up and closing of all the former DoE weapons sites. To this end. Congressman UDALL and I have worked in a bipartisan manner. with the Department of Energy. the EPA. the State of Colorado. the local governments and the Rocky Flats stakeholders to produce the proposed Rocky Flats National Wildlife Refuge Act. It has been hard work and with many discussion drafts. but in the end I believe we have produced a bill that the communities surrounding Rocky Flats can and will be proud of. It is important to understand that this legislation maintains that the Rocky Flats site will remain in permanent Federal ownership. and that the administrative transfer of this site from DoE to the Fish and Wildlife Service will take place after the cleanup and closure of the site is complete. While cleanup is still our top priority. determination of official closure is determined by the Environmental Protection Agencys signing of the final onsite record of decision. There are many components of this bill which I will summarize as follows: The sponsors of the legislation recognize the historic importance of the Lindsay Ranch homestead facilities and this legislation guarantees the ranchs preservation. Additionally. this bill ensures that the site will remain a unified site. therefore disallowing the annexation of land to any local government. or for the construction of through roads. The only roads that may be constructed on the site would be by the Fish and Wildlife Service for the management of the refuge. Currently. there is a provision in this legislation to allow the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of the Interior to authorize a transportation right ofway on the eastern boundary of the site for transportation improvements along Indiana Street. We are aware of the continued evaluation of this issue and want this section of the bill to be consistent with the needs of the State of Colorado and the local governments. With respect to the transfer of management responsibilities and jurisdiction over Rocky Flats. this bill requires the Department of Energy and the Fish and Wildlife Service to publish in the Federal Register a Memorandum of Understanding one year after the enactment of this Act. This Memorandum of Understanding will address administrative matters such as the division of responsibilities between the two agencies until the official transfer of the site occurs. This legislation clearly states that no funding designated for cleanup and closure of the site will be used for these activities. It is important that the transfer of the site from the Department of Energy to the Fish and Wildlife Service exclude any property that must be retained by DoE for future onsite monitoring. as well as property which must be retained for protection of human health and safety. The improvements necessary for the site to be managed as a wildlife refuge will be completed at no cost to the Secretary of the Interior. Therefore. the Secretary of Interior will need to identify appropriate improvement needs and submit this request to the Secretary of Energy in writing. This legislation also clarifies that in the event of future cleanup activities. this action will take priority over wildlife management. These two agencies must continue to work with each other towards their missions. One of the most important directives in this Act states that ""nothing in this Act affects the level of cleanup and closure at the Rocky Flats site required under the Rocky Flats Cleanup Agreement or any Federal or State law."" Through the ongoing discussions that Congressman UDALL and I have had with the Rocky Flats stakeholders we believe it is important to reiterate that this bill should not be used as a mechanism to drive the level of cleanup. We are confident that this language clarifies this issue. Our primary goal remains and will continue to remain the ongoing cleanup and closure of Rocky Flats. And. nothing in this bill affects the ongoing cleanup and closure activities at the Rocky Flats. Once the site is transferred to the Fish and Wildlife Service. the refuge will be managed in accordance with the National Wildlife Refuge System Act to preserve wildlife. enhance wildlife habitat. conserve threatened and endangered species. provide education opportunities and scientific research. as well as recreation. We recognize the importance of the locally elected officials and stakeholders in the effectiveness and success of this bill. Therefore. we want to ensure their continued contribution at Rocky Flats. Through this bill we direct the Fish and Wildlife Service to convene a public process to include input on the management of the site. The public process will provide a forum for recommendations to be given to the Fish and Wildlife Service on issues including the site operations. transportation improvements. leasing land to the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. perimeter fences. the development of a Rocky Flats museum and visitors center. Upon the completion of this report by the Fish and Wildlife Service. a report will be submitted to Congress to identify the recommendations resulting from the public process. We have received a lot of input with respect to private property rights. This legislation recognizes and preserves these property and access rights. which include mineral rights. water and easement rights. and utility rightsofways. This legislation does direct the Secretary of Energy to seek to purchase mineral rights from willing sellers. For management purposes. this Act provides the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Interior the authority to impose reasonable conditions on the access to private property rights for cleanup and refuge management purposes. Additionally. this bill provides the Secretary of Energy with the authority to allow Public Service Company of Colorado to construct an extension from an existing extension line on the site. As a tribute to the Cold War and those who worked at Rocky Flats both prior to and after the site closure. Congressman UDALL and I. through this legislation. authorize the establishment of a Rocky Flats museum to commemorate the site. This bill requires that the creation of the museum shall be studied. and a report shall be submitted to Congress within three years following the enactment of this act. Lastly. this bill directs the Department of Energy and the Fish and Wildlife Service to inform Congress on the costs associated with the implementation of this Act. This process has moved forward successfully thanks to the hard work of the local governments and the Rocky Flats stakeholders. I also want to thank Representative UDALL for the bipartisan manner in which he and his staff worked with me and my office. Rocky Flats. like all other cleanup sites. is bigger than partisan politics and this effort proves it. Once clean up and closure is accomplished in 2006. I look forward to returning to Rocky Flats for the dedication of new Rocky Flats National Wildlife Refuge. I ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the RECORD."
