speech_id|speech
910155165|Mr. President. James Reston. of the New York Times. has written a most provocative article on the Presidents state of the Union message and his efforts to reform welfare. foreign policy. industrial pollution. FederalStatelocal relations and many other spheres of domestic problems. I commend this article to the attention of our Nations legislators and ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the Extensions of Remarks.
910155166|Mr. Speaker. over the years. I have made many requests to extend remarks and include
910155167|Mr. President. I recently received eloquent testimony to the fact that Americans of all backgrounds are willing and anxious that due recognition be given to the remarkable goals and achievements of the late Dr. Martin Luther King. Anthony Cama is a schoolteacher in Lynn. Mass. He also serves on the Committee of Italian Culture for the Order of the Sons of Italy in America. He has recognized and nobly advanced the universal values which Dr. King sought to realize. Recently I received from Mr. Cama a letter enclosing a poem which he had written and distributed to Sons of Italy chapters throughout the Nation. and offering his support for a resolution which I have submitted declaring the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King a national day of recognition. I ask unanimous consent that this most moving tribute be printed in the RECORD.
910155168|"Mr. Speaker. last November Dr. Bruce Monroe spoke before the ""Systems 70 Conference"" of the North American Rockwell Corp. Dr. Monroes paper. ""Modifying Existing Management Systems for Use in Educational Agencies."" presents an interesting point of view toward solving some of the problems confronting educators today. Dr. Monroe points out that systems analysis in the area of transportation. housing and law enforcement. to name just a few. has resulted in increased efficiency. while at the same time providing savings in time and money. To all who are interested in education. and its need for new ideas. I recommend the reading of Dr. Bruce Monroes paper. The paper follows:"
910155169|Mr. President. the Pittsburgh PostGazette recently published a most informative and interesting editorial on administration attempts to curb spiralling inflationary trends. I commend this to the attention of the Senate and ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the Extensions of Remarks.
910155170|"Mr. Speaker. in 1880. a band of men. women. and children. seeking to exercise their right to follow the religious creed of their choice. left the security of their homes and followed in the track of the Mormon pioneers. Rather than continuing to Utah. they decided to make their homes and rear their families in the beautiful mountain enclosed Star Valley of western Wyoming. They named their new settlement Freedom. in frank recognition of the fundamental value they cherished and for which they cut their old ties and roots to move to a rugged new land. For 90 years they have labored to make their home a productive and secure place where they could exercise their beliefs secure in the knowledge they could pass on their values to their children. In five wars their young men journeyed far from the mountains and valleys of home to defend the liberties they loved so well and knew so intimately. Today many of their sons are engaged in the struggle in Vietnam. Throughout the Nation there is dissent over the whys and wherefores of Vietnam. but the citizens of Freedom accept the task as another responsibility of liberty. They are matteroffact about their support for the policies of our President. Therefore. you can imagine their dismay when they learned that their home was to be the site of a triState moratorium rally that would denounce America and her policies. Despite their dismay they did not react with violence or anger. more with sorrow. They would not deny their fellow Americans the opportunity to express dissent even if it was shame they felt about the actions of the dissenters. Said the citizens of Freedom: Such a moratorium as you plan to hold and has been held in the past we feel will only give aid and comfort to the enemy. The statement noted that the town of Freedom is ""not in sympathy with you In this action. We will not support it. and to be very frank with you. we do not want it in our town."" Darrell Jenkins. a Freedom resident said: We recognize the right of people to dissent and to demonstrate but let them do it somewhere else. where the people want them to. In short. their actions have been in the"
