speech_id|speech
610144191|"Mr. Speaker. Judge DAVID A. DE ARmOND. who was of Huguenot extraction. was born. reared. and educated in one of the loveliest portions of Pennsylvania and spent his manhood days in the Imperial Commonwealth of Missouri. By his career he added new honor to the race from which he sprang. to the State in which he first saw the light. and to the State which he represented here so long. Judge DE ARMOND was unique in both habit and mental makeup. The term ""sul generis."" so often misapplied. describes him precisely. To the last he spoke as a judge in this House and out of it. which manner of speech he had acquired by long service upon the bench. That he stood among the highest here and was recognized as a force to be taken into account at all times and under all circumstances was a fact known to all of us. Why did he so rank? First. because of his native ability. his accurate information. his clear. incisive style of speaking. his fidelity to principle. and his flawless integrity. Secondly. by reason of his long service and by his constant attendance on the sittings of the House. He died near the end of his nineteenth year in Congress. Of all the Missourians who have been Members of the House. one only exceeded him in length of servicethe sterling and wellbeloved Richard Parks Bland. who died in the early part of his twentyfifth year of service. possessing an international reputation. The Missourian next to him in point of service in the House was Governor John S. Phelps. who served eighteen years and rose to be chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means. the first chairman of that committee from the sunset side of the Great River. Roger Q. Mills. of Texas. is the only other transMississippian to achieve that greatly coveted honor. The high places to which Phelps. Bland. and DE AnamaoyD rose in both the House and the country is another illustration of the value of long servicevalue not only to themselves. but to their constituencies and to the entire Republic. Men should not be sent hither simply to gratify their own personal ambitions. but because they can be of service. and having proved that they are of service. wisdom dictates that they should be kept here so long as they continue to be of servIce. and it may be confidently asserted that the value of the services of a man of capacity. character. industry. and good habits increases in exact proportion to his length of service. New England understands this thoroughly. So do the cities of Philadelphia and Pittsburg. When a Representative from any of those places demonstrates his fitness here. he is retained until he retires. dies. or Is promoted. Five times in succession Philadelphia has had the distinguished honor of furnishing the ""father of the House ""-Kelly. Randall. ONeal. Harmer. and BINGHAM. Should General BINOAM. the present ""father of the House."" for any reason cease to be a Member. the title of ""father of the House"" would pass to still another Pennsylvanian. my friend the Hon. JOHN DALZELL. These facts should furnish much food for thought to every constituency in the land. Judge DE ARMOND was happy In his constituency. and they were fortunate in their Representative. Though there were many able and ambitious men in that district. well worthy of a seat in this Hall. the people of that district would elect nobody but D ARMOND. Indeed. they gave so little encouragement to other aspirants that after his first election. which occurred in 1890. he never had opposition for the nomination. This enabled him to remain here constantly while the Congress was in session and to devote his entire time and energies to the discharge of his onerous and multifarious duties. By reason of this wisdom on the part of his constituents. and by his using to the utmost the opportunities which they gave him. he gradually and surely became one of the most prominent of Representatives. For years he was the ranking Democrat on the great Judiciary Committee. for three terms was a member of the Committee on Rules. once came within a few votes of the nomination for Speaker. and was frequently mentioned for the Presidency. No sane man can believe that he would have risen so high if lie had not served so long and if he had been compelled to spend a large portion of his time in Missouri campaigning for renomination. I can speak on this subject with some freedom. as my own constituents have been very kind to me. having given me eight unanimous nominations. thereby enabling me to remain constantly at my post of duty. for which I am deeply grateful. Judge DE ARMOND was the most sarcastic of all the men who have sat in the American Congress. Tristam Burges. John Randolph of Roanoke. John James Ingalls. and Thomas Brackett Reed made reputations in that regard which may outlive his. but they. in order to eke out their sarcasm. ransacked all literature. ancient and modern. sacred and profane. in both prose and poetry. DE AaMONDS sarcasm was his own. evolved from his own inner consciousness. He never quoted history or biography or poetry. he did not adorn or illustrate his speeches with wit. humor. or anecdote. he frequently made people laugh and applaud. but it was always his sarcasm which brought those results. He used his sarcasm so much that some men concluded that he was always in bad temper. which was not true. To those who knew him well there appeared to be two of himone the sarcastic public speaker. who seemed to delight in carving his foes and sometimes his friends. the other DE ARM0 D in private conversation gentle. kindly. companionable. That his sarcasm made him enemies there can be no doubt. for sarcasm means flesh tearing and frequently. Indeed generally. leaves a festering wound. His style of speaking and his diffidence of manner caused folks to believe him cold. Some of the opposition papers in Missouri called him "" Frosty DAVE."" yet with his intimates he was warmhearted. generous. and obliging. I believe that on the last day of his service in the House. in August. 1909. he was more popular than ever before. Whether it was because advancing years had mellowed him or because men had come to understand him better. I do notknow. but I believe I have stated the truth. He was the greatest verbal precision in the House during his nineteen years here. He never wrote his speeches. he was the only man of reputation in the House who could afford to let a long. unwritten speech go to the printer unrevised without injury to his reputation. His sentences were like cameos. They needed no revision. When he first told me that he never wrote his speeches I really believed that he was Indulging in that vanity which leads some men to claim as extemporaneous speeches which they had carefully written. rewritten. boiled down. polished up. and committed to memory. but we talked about it so often and he told me so circumstantially how he came to quit writing speeches that I knew he was candid in his declaration that he did not write them. His explanation was that. when quite a young man. he carefully prepared an oration for delivery at some college commencement. I think- It was. he committed it to memory. started to deliver it. got about half through. forgot the rest. floundered to the end. and resolved never to repeat the experiment. All this surprised me so that after I had concluded that he did not write his speeches I heard him with everincreasing wonder. When he delivered his speech of a full hours duration on the Philippine tariff bill. I sat in flont of him and listened to every syllable to see if he made a slip of the tongue or used a word where a synonym would improve it. He made only one slip. using ""worser"" for worse."" and corrected that on the instant. Nevertheless. let no man conclude that his speeches were unprepared. for none were ever more carefully prepared. That masterful and brilliant man. Thomas B. Reed. once. when disgusted by some Members speech containing several thousand words and nothing more. said to me: No gentleman has a right to pour his undigested Ideas upon a defenseless House. Whether DE ARMOND ever heard that dictum of Mr. Reed I do not know. but he lived up religiously to Reeds idea. for certainly he never poured any undigested ideas upon the House. It must be confessed. however. that he digested them very suddenly sometimes. My own theory of how he prepared his spoches is this: He would sit in his place hours at a time. apparently contemplating the coatsofarms on the ceiling. oblivious to the uproar about him. clipping old envelopes and scraps of paper with a pair of little pocket scissors. My judgment is that while doing that he was thinking out and preparing a speech. kneading it in his mind as a housewife kneads the dough. and when he was through with that process his speech was as carefully prepared and as thoroughly fixed in his mind as though he had written it out word for word and committed it to memory. That is my theory. It may be wholly wrong. but I believe it to be entirely correct. I give it for what it is worth in the hope that it may be of some value as a hint to young speechma kers. Man proposes. but God disposes. Originally Judge DE ARMOND had no desire to come to Congress. His ambition was for a judicial career. He had been circuit judge and supreme court commissioner. and desired to be judge of the supreme court. He made a splendid circuit judge and supreme court commissioner and would have ranked high on the supreme bench. but it was not to be. In 1S88 there were many capable Democrats in his congressional district. among them WILLIAM JOEL STONE. then serving his second term in the House. subsequently governor. and at present United States Senator. James B. Gantt. now chief justice of the supreme court of Missouri. and DE ARMOND himself. Gantt and STONE were both candidates for Congress. and STONE defeated Gantt by 1 vote in the convention. thereby securing his third and last term in the Ilouse. DE ARMOND was a candidate for supreme judge. but was defeated. Whether by agreement or accident I am not advised. but it so happened that in 1S90 STONE was not a candidate for any office. while Gantt and DE ARaMOND swapped positions. Gantt running for supreme judge and DE ARMOND for Congress. and both succeeded. Gantt has been on the supreme bench twenty years. rind is a candidate without opposition in his own party for another term of ten years. DE ARMOND was elected to Congress ten times.. and died in harness. Two or three years ago I asked him which he would prefer. ten years on the supreme bench of Missouri or ten years more in Congress. He replied. ""If I could be put back to 1888. I would prefer the supreme bench. but I have been here so long that I have grown used to it and like it. and would prefer ten years more of Congress."" How Judge Gantt feels about it I am not advised. I could easily have written a more rhetorical speech than this. but I chose to analyze honestly and fairly the sources of power of Judge DE ARMOND as I saw and knew him and as I believe he would have done by me were our situations exchanged. His death was so sudden and so tragic as to shock the entire country. He now takes his place with the distinguished Missourians who have so well illustrated and adorned the history of our free and beneficent institutions."
610144192|Mr. Speaker. I regard it a privilege to add a few wordsas a friend in memory of a mlan whose friendship I have enjoyed ever since I have been a Member of this House. I have listened with gratitude to the eloquent tributes that have been paid to his character and his services. He was all that gentlemen have said here. and then there was a vein in his character that will not appear when what we say about him is written and read. I came to know him in my first service in the Fiftyfourth Congress. chiefly because he came from the county with which I had some acquaintance long before he was there. I knew the town in which he lived when there were but a few bare chimneys standing over the ruins of the houses that had been burned away during the war. I knew the county when there were not half a dozen fenced fields in it. Very soon after the war came the immigration from Ohio. Illinois. and some other States in the North that went into that county. amongst them many of my fathers friends and some schoolmates of my boyhood. My mother and brother sleep in a little country cemetery in the western boundaries of that county. in an oak grove. that has been used as a burial ground since the first settlement of that community. I knew all the bypaths and roads that were opened in it and used long before he came there to live. I knew the character of the people that he represented in Congress. and amongst those who were his close friends in Butler were men who were friends of myself when I was a barefooted schoolboy in Ohio. I mention these incidents to show how easily we came to a personal acquaintance. Time after time we had a social hour together concerning them. and the years passed without much more than that until two years ago. when I was seriouslyill in my hotel. He and his good wife occupied rooms near to mine and were so solicitous and careful concerning me that I came out endeared to them by their personal friendship and attention. After that many an evening the Judge and I spent together. sometimes in the discussion of a question that was involved in the debates of the House. sometimes in discussing the travels on which he had journeyed. and sometimes about incidents of my own life in the intervening time between the time I was In the county and the time when he came to it. sometimes about the questions of great national policy for our Government. sometimes upon the deeper problems of life that endeavor to penetrate the veil through which he has now passed and beyond which for him the great problems are solved. Concerning our own country. we agreed upon the fundamental principles of our Government. We understood the Constitution of our country in substantially the same way. We understood the great and divine purpose of the life of man and the divine purpose of the life of nations in the same way. We derived our faith from the same Revealed Word and looked forward to the fulfillnent of the same hope. trusting in the same God. We differed upon questions of administration and upon policies for the development of our country and the care of our people. but he always had a clear and firm analysis. so that sometimes I was unable to answer him in defense of my own views as to what was the best policy for our country and what would bring the best development of our Nation. and what would preserve its power and its strength. to bring it to full maturity. and make it a blessing not only to ourselves. but to the world. And in the end these debates which we carry on daily in the House serve. in a larger measure. the same purpose as these private conversations that I have been recounting to you. I think it was noticed by some one here today that Judge DE AnMOND did not have an opportunity to put on record much of constructive work in the statesmanship with which he was so ably endowed. Yet we must remember that under the edge of his sharp pruning many a measure with which our side of the House is credited has been trimmed down until it better fitted the common welfare of this great people. with its many diverse opinions. His sharp criticism. his powerful sarcasm. his keen analysis compelled us sometimes to yield a point here and a point there. until the measure that we proposed came nearer to fitting the needs of the people for whom we legislate. The country will not know of these services of his. The true historian in a time long after this. searching for the reason why legislation did not go as far as we sometimes proposed. or sometimes did not go as far as an ardent partisan upon our side would have carried it. will find it was because the strong man from Missouri with the keen mind was measuring it. taking its dimensions. and laying them before the country. Mr. Speaker. I have not prepared a discourse concerning. Judge DE AM.sOND. and my only purpose in rising is to add my word. as a personal friend. to the memory of the great man whose friendship was an honor.
610144193|Mr. SpeakerGod moves In a mysterious way His wonders to perform. He plants his footstep in the sea And rides upon the storm. The tragic death of DAVID DE ARMOND removed suddenly from the national stage one of the strong leaders of his party and one upon whom the most weighty responsibilities rested. No man could have foreseen the inscrutable Providence by which such a brilliant career. so well rounded. so tempered by I the ripeness of experience. so firmly founded upon the enduring respect and esteem of a great constituency. so full of promise of immediate and continual usefulness. should be brought to such an untimely end. When I entered Congress in March. 1909. I found. a strong and influential delegation from the great State of Missouri. a delegation conspicuous especially upon the Democratic side of the House by the fact that it included within its ranks not only the minority leader of the great national party. but also the man upon whom that leadership might well have fallen. Judge DE ARMOND had served nine continuous terms in the House of Representatives. and by virtue of his clear and logical mind. his great industry. his inflexible fidelity to principle and his comprehensive grasp of the essential principles of free government. had established such a marked position of respect and had earned for himself so completely the confidence of his associates that he was in fact a leader. although by his own disinterested friendship and party zeal he had been earnest in conferr4ng the actual leadership of the great party upon another brilliant Missourian. his friend and associate. the Hon. CHAMP CLARK. He came to Congress well equipped for the Important duties of a national legislator. He had been a state senator in the general assembly of Missouri. He had presided as circuit Judge with signal ability in the courts of a splendid judicial circuit. My first recollection of him was when as a boy I entered upon the study of law In the office of the general attorneys of the old Kansas City. Fort Scott and Gulf Railroad Company. at Kansas City. Judge DE ARMOND was then a judge of a circuit through which the railroad ran. He was known as an able and fearless jurist. and he left Indelibly the impression of his strong personality upon all with whom he came in contact. To his training as circuit judge he added the ripening experience of his service as supreme court commissioner of the State of Missouri. Then he was chosen by the people of his district their Representative in Congress. So singularly fortunate was the choice and so well equipped was be by training and temperament to represent his district that he was returned to each succeeding Congress. However fierce the political storms that swept over the State of Missouri. his district remained faithful to his leadership. His place in Congress was a rock of Gibraltar upon which the ebb and flow of political tides had no effect. I have said to the people of his district. who are my neighbors and friends. and I repeat here. that the sixth district of Missouri is one of the most. if not the most. distinctively American districts In the United States. It is the typical American district. animated by American Ideals. cherishing the heritage of American liberty. unfaltering In Its allegiance to the fundamental American principle of equal rights and local selfgovernment. The people of that district are Americans. with less Intermixture of recent foreign immigration than possibly any other district in the United States. It is such a district which chose Judge DE ARMOND as its leader and Representative. and well he filled such a position. In the Congress of the United States he stood out conspicuously as the most American of Americans. That great body contains.. as it should. typical representatives of every section of this great Nation. men who express the ideals of Puritan New England. men who are typical of the chivalric knighthood of the old South. men who bring to us the adventurous spirit of the pioneer West. men who embody the commercial greatness of the busy marts of trade. men who have all the hopes and views and sympathies of the newer American citizens. who constantly are enriching our national life. Among all these men. so aptly and fittingly representing the varied phases of a great nation. I place Judge Dr ARMOND as the clearcut type of that broad stream of Americanism which extends like a great golden band from the Alleghenies across the Mississippi Valley. and which historians have come to regard as the leavening influence which enters into the great. undigested mass of emigration and turns it into an orderly body of American citizenship. burning with a high patriotism unknown and unknowable in any other land. The American Congress is full of strong men. men who by their personality. native ability. and force of character have made themselves conspicuous among the thousands of their fellowcitizens who constitute a great congressional district. Among such strong men of strong personalities this little giant of the sixth Missouri district towered to a conspicuous place. It was the force of his intellect? Yes. to a certain extent. It was the force of his industry and conscientious devotion to duty? That also is true. -but was no less true of many other men. The thing which made DE ARMOND great was his greatness of soul. which made his associates realize his inflexible fidelity to the American principle of equal rights. To him equal rights meant no less the vigorous assertion of his own proper claims and those of the people of his district than a just and kindly consideration of the rights of all people and all districts. He would no more encroach upon the rights of others than he would permit the invasion of his own. He was scrupulously exact in refusing any especial advantage to himself. He would not stultify himself by seeking undue advantages or accepting undue favors. which he knew were not consistent with the justice which he owed to others. This trait of his character was familiar to his associates and shines like a brilliant fixed star. in what is sometimes regarded by the pessimistic as a black midnight of political corruption. special privilege. and graft. If more public servants had the high courage of their convictions to refuse unearned favors and.special privileges to themselves. there would be no note of pessimism in American politics. It is the acceptance of favors not deserved and of special privileges without adequate public compensation that constitutes the first step out of the straight and narrow path of honest selfgovernment toward the bottomless pit of corruption and graft. No man saw this more clearly or lived it more truly than DAVID A. DE ARMOND. His life is a lesson to all young legislators and his example should be heralded to the world as proof of the eternal vitality of the principles of selfgovernment. And now he is gone. leaving the indelible impress of his example upon our national political life. and having written another brilliant page in the rich and varied history of the great Commonwealth of Missouri. We cherish his memory and add it to our common heritage of great traditions. which underlie like a broad foundation the splendid edifice of the perpetuity of our Republic. The tumult and the shouting dies. The captains and the kings depart. Still stands thine ancient sacrifice. A humble and a contrite heart . Lord God of Hosts. be with us yet. Lest we forgetI Lest we forget!
610144194|"Mr. Speaker. in memory of a dear friend I would add a few words of tribute. DAVID A. DE ARMOND and I. as young men from the North. located in adjoining counties in southwest Missouri more than forty years ago. Meeting frequently In our legal relations. in our masonic gatherings and political assemblages. we became from the first intimate friends. and always remained so. He immediately made a favorable Impression upon the community in which he dwelt. His manners were refined and dignified and he gave to all an impression of reserved force of character and intellectual strength. He took a lively interest in the wellbeing of the little town in whose almost rural confines his destiny was cast. not. however. in the commercial spirit of today. but in its larger growth of education. morals. and the civic virtues. At this time he was an enthusiastic Mason. and in his daily life and practice lived up"" to the best teachings of the order. As a young lawyer he was distinguished by his fidelity to his clients and the assiduous study of his profession. so that the community of Greenfield soon regarded him as the leader of the bar in their county and circuit. With the passing years his fame as a safe counselor and brilliant advocate became extended and he was called to the bench. where. as in the active practice. his career was marked by the same untiring industry. by profound opinions. great learning. and impartial decisions. He yielded reluctantly to the wishes of his personal and party friends and entered upon a political career. Having done so. however. his ability as a speaker and his personal popularity gave him immediate success. His powers as an organizer.. orator. and defender of the Democratic faith was recognized throughout the State. As a candidate his methods were honorable. his position as to party policies was always well known. he never indulged in personal abuse. nor was he ever guilty of an unfair act. We frequently acted together in party conventions. espousing the same cause. supporting the same candidates. and on several occasions were ourselves opposing candidates for party honors. I can knowingly assert his uniform fairness and kindness. his manly conduct under defeat. and all freedom fro n the spirit of envy and his gentle modesty in the hour of his triumph. He was tolerant of the opinions of others. Ie was a man of strong convictions. but he conceded to others what he reserved for himselfthe right of individual opinion and perfect freedom of thought and action. You are all familiar with his career as a Representative in Congress. The eulogies here pronounced today are just tributes to the man. and I will not attempt to add to them. but content myself by saying that I regarded him as one of the most useful. one of the ablest and most patriotic men who ever served in this body. Should*I be called upon to name his greatest characteristic. I would say his love for the masses of the people and a desire for their welfare. There was never the shadow of a stain on his fair name nor a blemish on his public career. in his passing away his party lost a wise counselor and the country a faithful servant. It was in his private life. however. that we who knew him best admired and loved him most. He gave his fullest confidence to his intimate friends. revealing a nature strong. tender. steadfast. loving. generous. He was. indeed. a fond father. ever solicitous for the welfare of his children. and to the wife of his youth. Alice Long. who still survives him. a devoted husband. His memory will be cherished in the State he so long honored."
610144195|Mr. Speaker. the question Is sometimes asked why men of superior talents. of great industry. and of pleasing personality are willing to give the long service here that some of them do. a service that necessarily robs them. to a large extent. of the joys and happiness of home life. of the society and companionship of lifetime friends. and in many instances denies them the income that their professional and business skill would yield if turned in the direction of producing revenue. The lure of applause and publicity and the fascination of the game of politics would probably be the answer as to some. while as to others it could be truly said that love of country and a compelling desire to be of service to the toiling masses of mankind is the inspiring motive. It is popular and sometimes financially profitable among certain elements of our day and time to decry patriotism. or at least to deny its existence among those whom the people in their patriotic faith have placed in power to serve the cause of patriotism. Should such a belief become prevalent throughout the land. It would be the confession of incapacity for selfgovernment and an acknowledgment thatthe majority of the people in each congressional district had not the intelligence or had not the honesty and the patriotism to select fit men to represent them. and it would mean the .end of government by the people. Such a belief. however. is not generally prevalent. as is demonstrated in the high character and patriotic purpose of the great majority of the men who continually find seats in this Chamber. and the Republic lives and patriotism lives despite the railings of the pessimists and those who would destroy the Government by destroying confidence in it. To those admitted to membership here it does not take long to discover that differences in home environment and home interests and in fixed preconceived opinions as to certain principles of government account for differences in voting. The lesson that is here first learned is that honest differences of opinions exist. and that such differences do not suggest a lack of patriotism. much less the presence of corruption. The thought. however. that I intended to give utterance to was simply that there are men here now. as there have been in the past and will be in the future. who are seriously concerned for the common weal and who freely give of their time and talents. to the end that government by the people shall endure. and men whose chief ambition is to unfetter and uplift struggling humanity. Of this type was our lamented colleague. Judge DE ARMOND. whose many virtues we today recall and exalt. The mention of his name leads to the further suggestion that one of the most. if not the most. potent charm to hold the average man here is the contact with the keen and sometimes brilliant intellects and the association with the many delightful personalities that are here found. To be privileged to enjoy an Intimate personal acquaintance with Judge DE ARMOND would be. as it has been to many in the past. ample compensation for many years of time and labor in the public service expended. His was a wonderful personality. He stood unique and alone in his class. There was no one else In it. Nobody ever said of some one else that he was like DE ARMOND. and no one ever said that DE ARMOND was like any other person. Throughout his entire service. covering a period of almost nineteen years. he was one of the notable figures in the House. H6 was one of itsornaments. one who illustrated in his every utterance. its dignity. ability. and patriotism. and did so in a style and manner peculiarly his own. He was not an imitator. nor was he a follower. He blazed his own pathway. and in his own inimitable fashion left an impress such as few men have left. and carved for himself a niche in the temple of fame. separate and apart from those carved by his predecessors or that will be carved by his successors. Others as great or greater than he have come and gone. and others yet will come and go. but his place will always be DE ARMONDS. His training was judicial. and so thorough was this training that one would never have to be told of it. for it revealed itself in his every utterance. He spoke always with judicial authority. and. Indeed. he spoke as authority itself. for. familiar as he was with the great precedents established by the courts. he never referred to a case by name or volume. he selected the principle established and asserted it in his own language. and It came from him as the decree of the court itself. He never quoted. nor did I ever see book or paper or memorandum before him when he was speaking. and yet his command of language was so great. his flow of words so smooth and even. that one could listen and imagine that he was reading from a book prepared by some master of diction. But. wonderful as was his diction. it was not more so than the clearness and distinctness of his enunciation. The complaint has often been made of difficulty In being heard in this Chamber. and yet Judge DE ARMOND could be heard in every nook and corner of it. although speaking always in a conversational tone. Not only was his language that of the judge. but it was uttered in the tone and manner of a judicial deliverance. A mere reference. however. to his manner of speaking. remarkable as it was. would not do him the justice that his great achievements deserve. He was here for many long years. and he was always actively and prominently here. taking part in all the great debates on all the great subjects that came up for discussion. He never entered a debate but to illumine it. and in his time he contributed much to the common store of knowledge and to the wise solution of many trying and disturbing problems. Men might sometimes. and did. disagree with the conclusions reached by him. but none could ever question the force with which he announced them or the clearness of the reasoning by which he reached them. and. once they were announced. so forcefully were they stated. they demanded a reply from those who opposed them. He was a great debater and. when aroused. was a foeman well to be avoided. There is nothing in all the realm of nature more interesting. more absorbing. or more wonderful than a welladjusted. smoothly poised. brilliant human mind in rapidfire action. with its full power in use. We sometimes marvel at the modern printing press. when we see the sheet of white paper enter into its grasp to be almost immediately discharged therefrom in the form of a great newspaper. printed. pasted. folded. and ready for the mail. but is that comparable to the wonder of the human mind that receives a suggestion and in an instant of time analyzes and digests it. frames a replycrushing. absolute. and completeand hurls it back from whence the suggestion came? When wit attacks wit and strong mind clashes with strong mind. the flashes of intellectual power that come forth thrill. uplift. and inspire as no mere physical performance can do. Time and again those of us who have been here for some time have witnessed all this and more when Judge DE ARMOND. strongly stirred with the zeal of forensic combat. was pitted against a foeman worthy to challenge his great intellect. and time and again we have witnessed the spontaneous outburst of applause -that came from friend and foe alike as a tribute to the matchless mind with which he was gifted. It has been said of him that he was not an orator in the true sense. and all will agree that the conversational and judicial style usually adopted by him for his speeches bore no resemblance to oratory. and yet when he was aroused he could add an emphasis to his words that startled and aroused. But more than that. he had the power of word selection such as few men possess. so that it was not the way his words were spoken. but it was the words themselves that commanded and held attention. He had the power to attract and hold. to arouse interest and enthusiasm. and to sway the will of those who listened. What more can oratory do? To those. who knew Judge DE ARMOND well and intimately it sounds strange to hear him pronounced cold and distant. because he was anything but that. and yet his diffidence. his retiring modesty. and his fondness for dwelling upon his own thoughts made him appear at times to have a disposition that was utterly foreign to his nature. He was the most genial and kindly of men. as those who were his intimates so well knew. No man was fonder than he of exchanging thoughts and ideas in quiet converse with his friends. and no man enjoyed more than he the social friendly intercourse with his fellowmen. The best side of him. as the good friend. wise counselor. and charming companion was in the Judiciary Committee room. where he served for so many years. and fortunate were those of us who were privileged there to serve with him. for there it was we learned to know him best and to admire him most. In my judgment the qualities and powers possessed by him fitted him best to serve in the House with his political party in the minority. I never knew him when his party and mine was in power. but his greatest strength was undoubtedly in criticism and in analysis. and he was by no means a gentle and forbearing critic. Nature endowed him with a judicial mind. and to this natural endowment was added the training of the bench. The judge does not construct. he construes. he examines. analyzes. and compares. and those were the things Judge DE ARMOND did for every measure that he took up for discussion. It was in work of this kind that he excelled. and in its performance he brought to bear not only keen and sharp analysis. but a wealth of scorn. derision. and sarcasm. such as no other man who served with him during my stay here has possessed. I love best to think of him. however. In his hours of ease and confidence. when all restraint was removed and he unfolded to view all those sweeter and gentler qualities that made him the real true man that he was. It was this thought of him that came to me when the news of his tragic and fearful death was flashed across the wires. The ways of Providence are inscrutable and beyond our finding out. but it seems to me that the pathos and the tragedy of his ending has served as nothing else could do to reveal the fountains of love that played within him and to expose as perhaps would otherwise never have been done the serene greatness of his soul. When danger and death beset us. it is not all of us who can stoop to comfort. to succor. and to save another. and yet that Is what he did. The faith and couidence in him of the little grandchild who went into fiery death with him was not misplaced. for although in that dreadful hour lie could not save. he could die repeating assurances of safety to the end. In his death a brave spirit. a lofty soul. and a giant intellect passed the way of all earth. and while we mourn and lament that lie has gone. we can and do rejoice that he lived. and we are proud that we knew him and could claim him as friend.
610144196|In pursuance of the resolutions already adopted. and as a further mark of respect to the memory of our distinguished colleague. the House will now adjourn untiltomorrow at 12 oclock. Accordingly (at 5 oclock and 26 minutes p. in.) the House adjourned.
