speech_id|speech
910229967|Mr. Speaker. a front page article in the June 21 Washington Post accurately suggests that the onus for steadily worsening electric power conditions in the United States belongs almost exclusively to investorowned utilities. which in the face of increased consumer demand for their important product. have blindly emphasized power sales over power supply and reliability. In so doing. they have put profit before the public good. This week. the Members of this House will vote on an issue that could help make the private electric utilities face up to their public responsibilitiesappropriation of $807.000 requested by the administration for continued preconstruction planning of the proposed DickeyLincoln School hydroelectric power project in northern Maine. The proposals potential is great. and includes. among other things. the promise of a 1.9to1 benefittocost ratio and a number of impressive environmental and recreational uses. But perhaps most significant--certainly most worrisome to its detractorswould be its provision of a socalled power yardstick. This is the measurement by which private power consumers in the New England and adjacent areas would be made aware of the disparity between private and public prices. It would help keep private power prices at a more reasonable level. It could prove to be both a potent consumer weapon in the hands of millions of deserving northeasterners.
910229968|"Mr. Speaker. during the trying and tense period immediately following the Presidents decision to move against Communist sanctuaries in Cambodia and amid the tumult and turmoil on our college campuses. a noted educator in my congressional district prepared and circulated a letter addressed ""To my friends in the academic community."" This letter. by Dr. Jacqueline R. Kasun. associate professor of economics at Humboldt State College in Arcata. Calif.. is an outstanding historical account of Americas involvement in and commitment to South Vietnam. In the main. it Is a logical. factual. and noninflammatory statement. Beyond that however. it portrays the kind of historical perspective that is so often totally lack-"
910229969|Mr. Speaker. so many things we are doing these days lend themselves to lampooning that we may be giving rise to the golden age of American satire. A good example of the genre. inspired by the SST folly. appeared recently in Newsday.
910229970|Mr. Speaker. the road has been long and rocky. but I believe the establishment of an effective statutory consumer protection organization in the Federal Government is at last in sight. Having labored so long in this endeavor. it is difficult to fully express my pleasure at having the Consumer Protection ActH.R. 18067reported to the full House Government Operations Committee last week. In one sense. this bill may be considered a compromise. And. I am proud to label it as such because it represents the true spirit of the legislative process where members of different parties and exponents of differing political philosophies cooperate together to devise the best means of protecting the public interest. In this regard. Congressman ROSENTHAL deserves a special mark of gratitude. He has been in the forefront of the consumer protection fight in the House for a number of years now and. although discouragement must have visited him more than once. he has remained undaunted in his efforts to move this necessary legislation forward. In like fashion. Congressmen JoHN BLATNIK. the subcommittee chairman. CHET HOLIFIELD. the acting chairman of the full committee. JOHN ERLENBORN. the ranking Republican on the subcommittee. CLARENCE BROWN. and PAUL FINDLEY all devoted many hours of their talents and time to putting this legislation together. I am grateful to them all. as I am to the more than 60 Members on both sides of the aisle who cosponsored my original bill. As much as H.R. 18067 is a compromise. it is also an amalgamation of the best ideas contained in the principal consumer legislation that was before the subcommittee: the Rosenthal bill. the Dwyer bill. and the bill proposed by the administration which I also introduced. During our third round of hearings in April of this year. I stated: If we are to have [consumer] legislation. it will have to come through compromise or . . . amalgamation. But I believe we can devise a compromise so desirable that it will actually be an improvement over any of the bills individually. That is exactly what I feel the reported bill represents. especially in the sense of legislation which will be effectual and which can be passed. To the Office of Consumer Affairs. located in the Executive Office of the President. there is granted the key functions of first. encouraging and assisting in the development and implementation of consumer programs and activities within the Federal Government. second. coordinating Federal consumer programs and activities. third. assuring that the interests of consumers are considered and implemented by Federal agencies. fourth. recommending improvements in Federal programs and operations. fifth. conducting conferences. surveys. and investigations. sixth. encouraging. initiating. coordinating. and supporting consumer education. research. and studies. seventh. cooperating and assisting State and local governments and private enterprise. and eighth. publishing and distributing a consumer register. To the independently established Consumer Protection Agency is granted the vital functions of representing the interests of consumers before Federal agencies and courts and assuming the consumer safety responsibilities of the National Commission on Product Safety whose tenure will soon lapse. To both agencies is given the task of receiving. evaluating. acting upon. and transmitting consumer complaints. and developing and disseminating consumer information. including test results. Those of us who drafted H.R. 18067 see this division of responsibility not as some form of divided or duplicative authority. To the contrary. after hearing testimony from dozens of leading consumer specialists and after deliberating amongst ourselves for many hours. it was the opinion of all of us that different functions may be best performed by separate organizations under different settings. Thus. the Office of Consumer Affairs can employ the influences of the White House to encourage Federal agencies to improve their consumer protection functions. to knock heads together until improved operations and coordination develop. and to better assure the interests of consumers are adequately considered by the Federal agencies. This Office could be located nowhere else. in my opinion. and perform its duties as effectively as it could in the Executive Office of the President with the prestige of the President behind it. By the same token. the consensus of opinion developed that the functions of representing the interest of consumers before Federal agencies and courts and performing consumer safety functions should best be entrusted to an independent agency which would be free of conflicting influences and which could take continuing action without embarrassing the President or forcing him to choose sides at the routine operatingnonpolicylevel between Federal agencies or between alternative public obligations. There are those who may feel that a certain amount of duplication has been built into this legislation. particularly in extending the consumer complaint and information functions to both agencies. The fact is that although the general authority in these two cases has been granted to both consumer units. the statutory language spells out the intention that the units effectively coordinate their responsibilities to prevent duplication. In the case of the Agencys right to request other agencies to perform tests. such tests may only be conducted in support of the Agencys designated responsibilities. In this regard. I want to state clearly that neither the Office nor the Agency is authorized to engage in product testing itself. Federal agencies. in turn. are to be compensated for the testing services so performed. This consumer bill also gives birth to two additional legislative provisions which. if administered effectively. could greatly benefit consumers. One provides that every Federal agency which takes action which may substantially aff ct the interests of consumers. such as the promulgation of rules and regulations. the formulation of policy decisions. or the issuance of orders or decrees. shall take the interests of consumers into consideration when so acting. provide public notice of the action so taken. and indicate publicly the manner in which such action shall affect the consumer interest and the means by which the consumer interest is to be protccted. By forcing Federal agencies to zero in on the consumer interest when engaging in their regular activities and to publicly disclose the bases for their actions. it is hoped that this will induce a greater awareness of consumer needs and commitment to consumer protection within the Government. The other new innovation is the attempt to create a Consumer Advisory Council which is independent of the agency or operation it is acting as an adviser to and which is capable and willing to perform a critical and intelligent evaluation. review. and oversight in regard to such agencyin this case both the Office and Agency. I fully recognize that we have witnessed the creation and atrophying of multitudes of advisory councils. commissions. and boards over the years. I retain the faith. however. that such an organization can be effective in discharging its responsibilities if dedicated individuals are selected. if proper responsibility is conferred. and if adequate staff and facilities are made available to the council for it to use as it deems proper. That is precisely what we have sought to do in the case of the advisory council. Finally. let me express some concern that I have felt in recent days over certain press reports that the RosenthalDwyer bill constitutes a rejection of the administrations proposed consumer protection legislation. Nothing could be far-
