speech_id|speech
760219516|Mr. Speaker. I yieldsuch time as he may desire to the gentleman from Oklahoma .
760219517|Mr. Speaker. I am glad to join several other Members of this House in urging the passage of the pending bill providing for the authorization of appropriations for the entire Federalroad program for the fiscal years of 1942 and 1943. I agree with the able gentleman from Mississippi. who has just preceded me. that the building of a system of highways throughout the country constitutes real. practical national defense. In the years of 1935 and 1937. between sessions of Congress. I had the honor and privilege of attending important peace conference in Paris and Geneva. as one of the representatives of the Congress of the United States. During that trip I spent several days in Germany. at which time I went from one end of that country to the other. I was in Berlin during the famous love feast of Adolf Hitler and Mussolini. One of the many things that impressed me about Germany was the fact that they were building great airline highways. most of which radiated from their capital city of Berlin. One of those highways went toward the wheatfields of Russia. another toward Czechoslovakia. Others toward Belgium. Holland. and AlsaceLorraine. No one knows better than Germany that the ability to move troops. materials. ammunition. and supplies quickly and directly over the highways is an important cog in any nationaldefense program. Those of us who were in France during the late World War have not forgotten that one of the most serious handicaps to the Allies in that terrible death struggle was the lack of straight and properly constructed highways and bridges in France. In our own defense program which we are now undertaking on land. water. and in the air. and which we should have. of course. begun more seriously many years ago. we must not overlook the construction of a real system of highways throughout the length and breadth of this land. It is also important. as is contemplated at least in part by the pending bill. to construct many additional feederroads. improve our rural mail routes and farmtomarket roads. Mr. Speaker. my main reason for speaking for a few moments at this late hour is not to discuss primarily the pending bill or the need for highways in this country. Our people are finally becoming conscious of the necessity for improving and building more and better roads and highways. The fact that there appears to be little or no opposition to the pending measure is sufficient evidence that at last the country is sold on the necessity for a real highway system throughout the Nation.
760219518|Mr. Speaker. I yield such time as he may desire to the gentleman from Michigan .
760219519|Mr. Speaker. there is a great necessity for the continuation of Federal aid for highways. And. coming as I do from Michigan. the home of automobile transportation. I intend to support my colleague the gentleman from Oklahoma and his committee.
760219520|Mr. Chairman and members of the Roads Committee.
760219521|Mr. Van Wagoner.
760219522|"In order to save time. and I know time is essential to this committee. I have tried to put the many phases of what I have to say in printed form and if you will bear with me I will read this as quickly as possible and get those points over to you. In the first place we deeply appreciate the courtesy of your committee in granting us time to testify concerning the bill under your consideration. I am speaking as State highway commissioner of Michigan. and as president of the American Road Builders Association. It is my understanding that representatives of other States. of counties. of cities. and of organizations interested in an adequate. efficient highway system will testify here. I believe this committee Is thoroughly convinced of the need for an adequate Federalaid program for the continued improvement and expansion of Federalaid routes. You will find highway administrators everywhere convinced generous Federal aid to our highway system is an economic investment close to the general welfare of our people. I strongly urge the continuance of the present Federalaid program financed by the authorization of at least such amounts as were appropriated for the 1938 and 1939 fiscal years. Mr. Henry F. Cabell. chairman of the Highway Commission of Oregon. and president of the American Association of State Highway Officials. has given you a most convincing picture of our needs in that respect. Results of the highway planning surveys are becoming available in many States. These surveys are the basis for longterm planning. Only a continued system of financing. such as that offered under the Federalaid program. will fit into this new conception of highway building for the future. This planned building. with the plans based on scientific determination of needs. is the greatest advance in highway building since the advent of the concrete road. It demands planned financing. We need also the advance in our road building and financing program embodied in the proposal for Federal aid to finance the purchase of rightsofway by local communities and States. For decades we have seen emphasis placed on rural construction. In a few short years. we have built up a great national highway system. The expansion in improved mileage is almost unbelievable. Today those identified with highway development are faced not with taking the motorist out of the mud but of lifting him out of the traffic congestion which is blanketing the arterial highways of our great metropolitan areas. This congestion is threatening not only a system of rapid passengercar movement. but it is threatenIng our industrial expansion. One of the basic difficulties involved in the solution of this pressing and urgent problem of urban traffic congestion is the relatively high cost of needed rightsofway. Like many other social and economic problems which have taken on national proportions. this problem also will need. if it is to be solved. Federal assistance. I have made some study of the national situation. I am most familiar with the Michigan problem. so I will confine myself to my own Statea typically industrial State. Michigan is the automotive empire of our country. Detroit is the capital of that empire. You will recall that a recent Commerce Department report said the automotive industry was leading the way to recovery. I believe it is. but it is carrying the ""Old man of the sea"" on its back. the burden of inadequate traffic facilities in the city of Detroit which hampers even the movement of raw materials to and of finished products from. the industrial plants. Let me recite for you a few facts gathered in a recent study. They are given for the benefit of those who mistakenly say the State and the municipality should finance themselves toward a modernized traffic system. Michigan has approximately 9.000 miles of trunkline highways. For the improvement and extension of this system it has. inclusive of State and Federal funds. about $8.000.000 a year for actual construction. During the current administration of the highway department. the widening of a bottleneck an Woodward Avenue. just 29j( miles long. was undertaken. Construction on that job cost us $1.537.000. But rightofway cost us $12.479.000. The courts determined that the price was fair. If we had applied all available State construction money for 1 year to the completion of that job. we still would have been more than $6.000.000 short. That should show you how slow is going to be the process of lifting the blanket of dangerous congestion from our metropolitan areas if we cannot borrow money. if we cannot establish Federal credit. Our engineers. in preparing the material for these hearings. investigated cost sheets on nine separate metropolitan projects. They learned actual physical construction on those projects. mostly street widenings. averaged $232.600 a mile. but rightofway on which to lay these improvements averaged $1.142.000 a mile. The 9 projects totaled 27.6 miles. The total cost of physical construction was $6.433.000. The cost of rightofwayand these were already existing streets--was $31.586.000. Michigan has sufficient motor vehicles to carry at one time every man. woman. and child in the State. More than 70 percent of our entire population rides in a motor vehicle once each day. Our highwayplanning survey. in an exhaustive report. said our traffic will double by 1960. It has estimated that to care for the traffic of 1965 a total of $850.000.000 should be spent in the next 25 years on the State trunkline system. One of the factors which has contributed most heavily to the cost of rightofway in the Detroit area has been piecemeal buying. W( had to dicker for each foot. for each lot. with no promise of completed program. We have under way in Detroit today a study of a proposed crosstown highway route. 13!/2 miles long. the physical structure to bE of the limited access. depressed. or elevated type. The engineer in charge of the studyand he is here todayhas estimated we could purchase the needed rightofway for $11.500.000. But he estimates the cost may be several times that in a few years from now. That estimate is based on the supposition that money could be made available for the purchhse of the entire strip at one strokea supposition that is an empty one unless we can establish Federal credit. Compare that figure to the $12.000.000 spent for 290 miles of rightofway on Woodward Avenue. In Michigan we have a pressing need for two limited access. express motorways. one reaching from Detroit toward Toledo and the second from Detroit toward Chicago. The raw materials for heavy industry. the finished products of Detroit factories. move over these roads. The traffic band from Detroit to Toledo is. I believe. the second heaviest of any route east of the Mississippi River. Let us look at the increase in traffic here. From 1930 to 1936 tractortrailer traffic increased 304 percent: truck and bus traffic increased 11 percent. passengercar traffic. 25 percent. and all traffic. 38 percent. On the Chicago to Detroit route. passengercar traffic increased 21 percent In the same period. 1930 through 1936. truck and bus traffic. 14 percent. tractors and trucks with trailers. 570 percent. and all traffic. 31 percent. This traffic was reflected In the death and injury reports. It was reflected in smashed property. delayed traffic and in direct loss to industry. Yet. such traffic must continue to travel just such highways for years to come unless we can perform a major operation on these two trunk lines. The time for firstaid treatment is past. Temporary measures will only lose us money. From Chicago to Detroit is 287 miles. We must have new rightofway andwidened rightofway if we are to perform the major operation necessary. With State resources what they are. I cannot visualize purchase of the needed land for years to come.- Meanwhile its value is skyrocketing through developing. From Detroit to Toledo Is 57 miles. The route lies through a highly developed region. Land costs are high there. I see no immediate possibility for acquisition of the rightofway we need by purchase through the usual channels. Yet there are two obstructions in the easy flow of traffic which impede the orderly progress of our commercial life. I question whether the Federal Government will consider it good business to permit such conditions to prevail. I am a firm believer in the Governments investment in the welfare of its people. at least in such instances where these investments will be paid back over a period of years. Rightofway costs are not decreasing. Once purchased the rightofway cannot be carried off. It serves as solid collateral for an investment at the same time it serves national enterprise. I am now going to submit to the committee evidence of the need of our State for additional Federal assistance as is proposed in title II of the bill under consideration. It is my understanding that able testimony already has been submitted in support of title II of the bill under consideration. As president of the American Road Builders Association. I heartily endorse the testimony on the necessity for continuance of an unrestricted Federal highway program as submitted by Mr. Henry F. Cabell. chairman of the Highway Commission of Oregon. and president of the American Association of State Highway Officials. The system of Federal aid to States established by Congress and administered by the Public Roads Administration is the foundation of Federal and State financial participation in an economic structure vital to the social progress of our country. Any limitation imposed on Federal participation in expansion of our integrated highway system is a direct constriction of the articles of our Nations commerce. Members of the House Roads Committee and the Senate Committee on Post Offices and Post Roads necessarily are the best informed Members of Congress on the problems of our national road system. Most of them. I believe. are in agreement that we are not overspending under the provisions of title I. As in all other lines of construction. road builders constantly are faced with the necessity for repair and expansion. Roads. even concrete ones. wear out. It is their peculiar nature to wear out more swiftly where they are most needed because that is where they are most used. Road building is not a static thing. As we build and improve new routes. we constantly must be repairing and replacing established routes. Road building and improvement programs. in their very nature. must be continuing programs. increasing in scope as traffic and commerce increases. The problem of raising money for rightofway. dealt with in title II of this bill. has. we might say. suddenly come upon us as one of the most perplexing problems of the roadbuilding industry. It was not of particular import when we were building to get backcountry motorists out of the mud. It flashed upon the consciousness of the American public when in recent years we turned to the problem of getting tremendous traffic flow through the gateways of our modern cities and distributing it to its orderly destinations. Since the first automobiles made their appearance we have concentrated on building continuous through highways in our country. The bulk of our construction was rural construc-"
760219523|Without objection. it will be made part of the record. The table referred to by Mr. Van Wagoner is as follows: TABLE 1.-State of Michigan State Highway Department. present and future needs [State trunkline widening to divided roadways of 4 or more lanes] Item Length in Estimated miles costI Present need for widening: Rural State trunk lines --------------------------- - -472 $63. 712.000 Urban State trunk lines ------------------------------ 134 30.671.000 Total ----------------------------------------------- 606 9.383.000 Future need for widening: Rural State trunk lines ------------------------------- 1.028 121.786.000 Urban State trunk lines ------------------------------ 298 59.537.000 Total ------------------------------------------------ 1.326 181.323.000 Present and future widening needs: 2 Rural State trunk lines ---------------------------- 1.500 185. 498. 000 Urban State trunk lines ---------------------------- 432 90.208.000 Total ----------------------------------------------- 1.932 275. 706. 000 When the estimated cost of widening is added to these costs the total estimated cost of higher capacity and new type facilities amounts to ------------------------------------- ----------- 453.426.000 To this should be added the estimated cost of constructing 2lane pavement on Present gravelsurface routes. on routes at present surfaced with old or inadequate 2lane pavement. and on new or relocated routes --------------- 7.618 400.000.600 Total. estimated present and future needs ........... 10.121 853.426.000 I Includes cost of planning. engineering. and rightofway. I These estimates do not take into account the need for additional belt lines around cities or limitedaccess express ways in rural and urban areas. The accompanying estimate might be used: Item Length in Estimated miles cost Additional belt lines--4 to 6 lanes ------------------------- 211 $56. 070.000 Limitedaccess express ways ------------------------------ 320 120.750.000 Total ---------------.--------------------- 71 177.720.000
760219524|This proposal to aid local governmental units in purchase of rightofway for highway construction applies directly to three typical problems faced by industrial States. The first is to provide swift and safe transportation across our industrial cities for purely citytraffic movements. This movement is of both commercial and pleasure vehicles. and much of its bulk is made up of workers going to or coming from their jobs. The second problem is to permit unrestricted. highspeed flow on limitedaccess highways between industrial centers such as Detroit and Chicago and Detroit and Toledo. Here is a constant flow of raw materials and finished products. of food and the necessities of life. of travel units operating on schedules. and of pleasure drivers. The third is to get our visiting tourists through the industrial centers which straddle our trunk lines and delay swift arrival at the recreation areas to the north. A large portion of our State relies on tourist business for a livelihood. These three problems require the acquisition of new and wider rightofway. In the first instance. we must acquire that rightofway. we must acquire that rightofway at tremendous cost in highly developed industrial centers. In the second. we must acquire rightofway. and in some instances control additional rightofway through southern Michigan territory which lies in the most valuable districts of the State. In the third. we must acquire rightofway. either through industrial centers or around them where developments are proceeding rapidly and realestate prices pyramiding. The three phases of construction in which rightofway costs are most closely involved are belt line. urban. and interurban. Discussion of these costs will be limited to actual figures taken from past experience and surveys completed or nearly completed on a crosstown project for Detroit. We can speak only in general terms when we refer to proposed limitedaccess highways linking Detroit and Chicago and Detroit and Toledo. The State Highway Department of Michigan has put its superhighway problem study in the hands of a competent engineer. He has divided it. at our suggestion. into three phases: Project I. a study of the feasibility and cost of a Detroit crosstown motorway. from 13/2 to 19 miles in length. crossing the city and providing inlets and outlets to three centralized industrial areas now isolated by inadequate transportation facilities. Project II. a study of a proposal for a limitedaccess express highway from Detroit toward Toledo. a route showing the second heaviest traffic band east of the Mississippi River. Project III. a study of a similar project from Detroit toward Chicago. Previous experience warned us that rightofway costs for such projects would be tremendous for highways of adequate width in the metropolitan area. Our State highway department not so long ago assigned Itself the task of widening U S 10. Woodward Avenue. for 2.6 miles in the downtown district of Detroit. Actual physical construction on that 2.6 miles cost us $1.537.026.91. Rightofway cost us $12.479.782.86. The State highway department. inclusive of Federalaid and State money. has only about $8.000.000 a year for construction on our 9.000mile system. Had we applied this entire amount for 1 year to the 2.6 miles we would have been between six and seven million short of paying for it. Our engineering division recently computed rightofway costs on nine major metropolitan projects. Construction costs averaged $232.619 a mile for 27 miles. Rightofway averaged $1.142.114. But a survey of the crosstown route. based on valuation figures and on the assumption that we could go in and buy the property in entirety for the development. surprised us. Our engineer reported. after a check of 2.779 individual parcels and conversations with valuation authorities. that the necessary property and buildings possibly could be bought for $11.549.700. if we confined ourselves to 13 miles. Those purchases were predicated on a 250foot rightofway. It would be the height of presumption to believe the highway department ever could step in and buy that property at one swoop. We need the aid of longterm loans from the Federal Government if we are to build that crosstown route on an economical. masspurchase basis. It is interesting to compare the figure quoted for the 13 -mile stretch required for the crosstown highway with the amount paid for 2.6 miles of rightofway on Woodward Avenue. To illustrate the part that actual construction costs play in the building of modern thoroughfares in comparison to rightofway costs. the following table is submitted. The CHAmmAN. Without objection it will be made a part of the record. The table referred to by Mr. Van Wagoner is as follows: TABLE 2.-Summary of comparative rightofway and physical construction costs of 9 metropolitan projfects Miles Construe- Rightof- Total cost tion way U S 131. Grand Rapids ------- 1.012 $126.036. 04 $467.202. 47 $593. 238. 51 (Wealthy to Hall.) U S 131. Grand Rapids --------.817 125. 209.12 3K 393. 48 461.602.60 (Michigan to Coldbrook.) U 625. Mount Clemens- . 234 76.071.83 328.871.32 404.943.15 (Cass to Market.) 8 Mile Road. Detroit area-.-- 4. 995 478. 109. 45 2. 553. 736. 42 3. 031. 935.87 (Greenfield to John R.) 8 Mile Road. Detroit area --- . 9984 416. 210. 00 1.687. 623. 14 2.103.833. 14 (John R to Gratiot.) 8 Mile Road. Detroit area ---- 6.102 528. 903. 20 1.163. 740.16 1.692.643. 36 (Gratiot to Jefferson.) U S 10. Detroit ------------- 2. 636 1. 937.026.91 12.479.782.86 14.016.809. 77 (West Grand Boulevard to Witherell.) U S 25. Detroit ------------- 4.824 1.590.855.31 9.249. 488. 92 10.840.344.23 (Randolph to Harper.) U 6 112. Detroit ------------ 3.052 1.554.815.74 3.319. 457.04 4.874.272. 78 (Livemnois to Sixth.) Total ---------------- 27.656 6.433. 327. 60 31.586.295.81 38.019.623. 41 Average construction cost per mile for 9 typical metropolitan projects -- $232.619 Average rightofway cost per mile for 9 typical metropoltan projects ---- 1.142.114 Average total cost per mile for 9 typical metropolitan projects ------ 1. 374. 733
760219525|We believe a rightofway of 250 feet will be required for the Detroit crosstown project. The 13Vmile proposed route crosses the city in an approximately eastandwest direction and cuts through many different types of developments. On the west it crosses a more recently developed residential section of industrial workers. The central portion crosses an old and blighted residential area of Detroit which has been changing in character from a residential to a strictly commercial and industrial area. A portion of the eastern end of the proposed motorway crosses a new residential development of good character. in portions of which there is considerable vacant property available at the present time. Because the proposed motorway crosses the entire city. it touches practically every type of development that a large industrial center presents. This wide variety of development Is reflected in the spread of unit landcost figures. which we find to be as low as 12 cents a square foot and as high as $4.50 a square foot. Our original survey leads us to believe that of the 2.779 parcels of property needed. most of them would be acquired only by condemnation. Approximately 1.983 of these parcels. or 71 percent. carry a building development of some nature. In other words. only 28 percent of the property needed is vacant. A portion of the proposed rightofway located between Connors Avenue on the west and Morang Drive on the east presents a much more favorable ratio of vacant to builtup properties. Within this portion there are approximately 970 parcels of property of which 374 are improved with buildings. representing 88 percent of the total. The balance of the properties Is vacant. and steps should be taken in the Immediate future to acquire this available rightofway within the city before it is completely developed and valuations raised accordingly. Detroit experienced a rapid growth during the last quarter century. It was in keeping with the development of the automobile industryan industry recently credited by the Department of Commerce with leading the way to recovery. This rapid growth brought with it the immediate need for such basic municipal services as water lines. sewer lines. paving. and other necessities. In order to furnish these services within a short time. it was necessary to resort to the floating of bond issues. When the economic structure collapsed 10 years ago. it lowered very drastically realty values and changed altogether the ratio of assessed valuations to bonded indebtedness. The city of Detroit finds itself bonded beyond its permissible legal limit. The possibility of pledging the faith and credit of the community for additional bond issues to acquire rightofway for needed highway improvements within the city limits is entirely out of the question. The development of lowcost housing projects in Detroit would be impossible without Federal assistance. The same is true of the Immediate start of the crosstown highway project. This problem of caring for the swiftly increasing flow of traffic is not confined to our greatest city. It involves every municipality sitting astride of a State trunk line. The traffic system of these cities must be either modernized now or at much greater expense in the years to come. Wherever possible. we must avoid the situation which befell Detroit. We must avoid clogged highways and distressed traffic conditions. It is advisable. wherever possible. to route a large portion of through traffic around cities by construction of wide belt lines which will carry automobiles swiftly and safely. We must provide feeder roads from cities to limited access. express superhighways which span States and regions and which may span our country with the swift increase of motor traffic. It has been proposed that such roads of limited access be built between Detroit and Toledo and Detroit and Chicago. Chicago already has planned an entrance for such a highway from Detroit. The Detroit end of the express way would reach to the proposed crosstown highway. We consider that. in fact. step No. 1 in the construction of either of the two routes. Traffic on both of these arterial highways is of a mixed nature. The swift pleasure cars are speeding by the trailer trucks and the busses. There is a constant shuttling in and out of traffic. This is reflected in our fatalaccident figures shown at the end of this statement. Surveys showed traffic on the Detroit to Toledo route. most of which is over Telegraph Road. increased 38 percent between 1930 and 1936. Traffic over the DetroitChicago route increased 31 percent in the same period. At that time average daily traffic was 8.462 cars on the DetroitToledo route and 7.450 cars on the DetroitChicago route. The State Highway Department has realized that alleviation of traffic conditions on these two routes. the partial relocation of both routes. is too great a financial problem to tackle with the present limited resources at our disposal. A patchwork of repair sections can be considered only temporary. Much of the Chicago route is winding. curved rightofway. This must be straightened. widened. and relocated. The distance between Detroit and Chicago is 287 miles. To purchase an adequate rightofway for a limited access. highspeed. express way between these two cities. with the financial condition of the State such as it is. is impossible. The route. if it were laid out directly. would traverse a wealthy section of the. State. It would split farms. cross streams. require purchasb of municipal property. and divide estates. Yet. if we could borrow money on longterm arrangement wilth an agency of the Federal Government. buy rightofway other than in piecemeal lots. and get our construction started. I am firmly convinced the investment would give new Impetus to our industries and soon repay the loans. What I have said of the Detroit to Chicago route applies to the Detroit to Toledo route. I am convinced. too. that the investment in rightofway along these routes. which the Government might sponsor. would be returned in no small measure by improvement of its socalled military road system. A glance at a list of War Department material requirements will emphasize the need of keeping transportation routes to our major industrial city unclogged In time of war. Despite every possible precaution. more than 1.500 people in Michigan died as a result of traffic accidents last year. I believe that appalling loss could have been greatly reduced by widened streets and straightened. limited access highways. by the use of some of that costly property which jams traffic together at city gateways and overcrowds it on mixed pleasure and commercial highways. To support that statement. there are attached some tabulations of accident percentages on highways where Federal assistance in obtaining room for new construction could save the lives of our motorists.
760219526|Without objection. they will be made a part of the record. The tables referred to by Mr. Van Wagoner are as follows: TABLE 3.-Motor vehicle traffic in 1930 and 1936 on rural State trunk lines that connect Detroit and Toledo. and Detroit and Chicago Detroit and Toledo: Passenger cars --------------------Trucks and busses ............... Tractors and trucks with trailers_All vehicles .................... Detroit and Chicago: Passenger cars ------------------Tractors and busses -------------Tractors and trucks with trailers.All vehicles -------------------5.257 86 1. 235 6.113- 100 .426 100 38 4.931 87 5.984 tO 21 624 11 709 10 14 113 2 757 10 570 5.668 7.450 I All traffic in the State increased 18 percent from 1930. The pressure on these two important industrial trunk lines is greater than is indicated by the percentages of traffic increase. The growth of their traffic at a rate nearly twice that in the State as a whole points to a still greater need for added capacity. but the fact that the heaviest. slowest. and largestdimensioned components of their.traffic have increased more than three and five fold. respectively. emphasizes the necessity for providing facilities of a special type. The presence of large. slowmoving commercial vehicles on a generaluse pavement means that the faster traffic units must make more overtaking and passing maneuvers. When these conditions exist on a single pavement carrying traffic moving in opposite directions. traffic is slowed down and subjected to unusual hazards. Under these circumstances divided roadways for directional traffic are required if motorvehicle transportation needs are to be served efficiently and safely.
